OXY PRESIDENT AND CEO VICKI HOLLUB AT ADIPEC 2022      OPPORTUNITIES IN A NET-ZERO ECONOMY STRATEGY OPPORTUNITIES IN A NET-ZERO ECONOMYIn our 2021 Climate Report, we detailed the strategies and timelines 
for our Pathway to Net Zero. This year, we focus on how Oxy is building 
a portfolio of low-carbon investments that work as a closed-loop system where CO2 can be captured and sequestered while still ensuring an adequate supply of energy to support industrial and transportation growth.To meet the goals of the Paris Agreement, the world will see the creation and growth of new industries, while leveraging the knowledge and experience of industries today. Oxy’s sustainable business strategy builds upon our strengths as an oil and gas and chemical producer to develop innovative, first-of-a-kind projects as well as repeatable business models that drive efficiency. We have a deep understanding of the geology and geophysics of subsurface formations, drilling and completion of injection wells, the fluid dynamics of CO2, operation of critical national infrastructure, and chemical process technology and controls which enables Oxy to be a leader in the net-zero economy. 
Oxy’s 2022 capital plan includes $200 to $400 million for our net-zero initiatives to develop and commercialize new technologies and low-carbon business models. As construction of our DAC plant started in September, we anticipate spending in 2022 will be toward the lower end of this range. This plan includes approximately $80 million in emissions reduction projects at existing oil and gas, chemical and other midstream operations in 2022, such as retrofitting facilities to reduce CO2, methane and other air emissions. More details on project-specific economic modeling can be found in Oxy’s Low Carbon Ventures Investor Update from March 2022 and in our earnings call transcript and slides for the third quarter of 2022.2022 PROGRESS:Oxy’s global leadership in the safe and secure storage of CO2 is central to our strategy to achieve Net Zero.CARBON MANAGEMENTBY THE NUMBERS•	Completed FEED and started site construction activities for DAC-1 in the Permian Basin•	Entered into agreements to provide carbon dioxide removal credits from DAC and to offer future opportunities to supply net-zero oil as markets emerge•	Secured worldwide agreement with Carbon Engineering for deployment and execution of DAC and Air To FuelsTM solutions•	Started pre-FEED activities for a second DAC plant and for Air To Fuels™ technology for a low carbon intensity alternative aviation fuel •	Inflation Reduction Act enhanced value of 45Q tax credits and enables a development planning scenario of up to 100 DAC plants, with up to 135 plants possible by 2035 under a global net-zero policy support scenario•	Entered into agreements for more than 265,000 net acres of pore space access, primarily in Louisiana and Texas, with a capacity to sequester up to 6 billion metric tons of CO2 and filed permit applications for multiple Class VI sequestration wells•	Retrofitted or eliminated over 95% of high-bleed pneumatic controllers in our U.S. operations since 2020, and awaiting delivery of equipment to address the remaining devices in 2023•	Approval of closed-loop gas capture technology in New Mexico•	Zero Routine Flaring achieved in U.S. Operations (Rockies, Gulf of Mexico and Permian Basin)A TOP PRODUCER IN THE
PERMIAN BASIN WITHCO2 STORED2.8 millionUp to 20 millionNET MINERAL ACRESMETRIC TONS STORED ANNUALLYEXISTING CO2 INFRASTRUCTURE13 CO22,500 milesOF CO2 PIPELINE ACCESSPROCESSING AND 
RECYCLING PLANTS VERIFICATIONThree U.S. EPA-approvedMONITORING, REPORTING AND VERIFICATION (MRV) PLANS2015: Denver Unit
2017: Hobbs Field
2021: West Seminole San Andres UnitREPORT & SHAREMEASURE & MANAGEEDUCATE & ADVOCATENet-Zero OilNet-ZeroProductsEliminateRoutineFlaringExpandElectrificationSourcing Human-Made CO for EORDeploy NET PowerPlants BroadlyFirst CemvitaBioethylene PlantRapid DACDeploymentScale CarbonRemovals GloballyNationalSequestrationHub NetworkDirect AirCapture (DAC)NET PowerDecarbonize Aviation, Shipping and Heavy IndustryTerraLithiumProject AVOIDXpansiv | CFL |CarbonSig CemvitaTankless FacilitiesLow/No-bleedControllers Find It/Fix It/ Measure ItRemoteEmissionsTrackingAutomatedMonitoringDual-Fuel &Electric RigsProject InterseqtCalifornia Low Carbon Fuel Standard PathwayCemvita ResearchFacilityFirst NET Power Plant First RegionalSequestrationHubDevelop Carbon Removal MarketsDesign &ConstructDAC FacilitiesREVOLUTIONIZEREMOVEREUSE/RECYCLEREDUCETIMING2021–25NEARTERM2026–35MEDIUMTERM2036–50LONGTERMNET ZEROAcceleratingInnovationFully ElectrifiedFieldsFull MethaneUtilizationCarbon MarketLeaderGlobal CCUSLeaderSTRATEGY TO ACHIEVE NET ZERORevolutionize carbon management by applying our 50+ years of leadership in CO2 separation, transportation, use, recycling and storage to invest in and deploy leading-edge technologies, and promote collaboration with industry, government and NGOs, using an integrated approach that benefits Oxy’s stakeholders and the world  REVOLUTIONIZEOxy is actively implementing multiple pathways to Net Zero to advance the goals of the Paris Agreement. Our strategy employs four key elements to achieve net-zero emissions in our operations and energy use before 2035 and no later than 2040, and in our total carbon inventory including the use of our products before 2050.Reduce emissions across our operations through employee-driven innovation and excellence and 
state-of-the-art, cost-effective technologiesREDUCEReuse and recycle CO2 with technologies and partnerships that use captured CO2 to enhance existing products and produce new low-carbon 
or zero-emissions products REUSE/RECYCLEREMOVERemove existing CO2 from the atmosphere in significant amounts for beneficial use and safe, secure sequestration by developing, proving 
and deploying innovative capture technologies 
and market mechanisms at commercial scale 
to further the goals of the Paris AgreementREVOLUTIONIZECO2 TO LOW-CARBON PRODUCTS AND FUELS As society progresses toward a net-zero economy, we expect the demand for low-carbon products and solutions to grow rapidly. DAC and Point-Source Capture, along with CO2 utilization and sequestration, will underpin a suite of low-carbon products such as anthropogenic CO2 feedstocks, low-carbon fuels and carbon removal credits. These enable the development of products, such as net-zero oil and low-carbon products to supplant those previously produced by heavy industries such as chemicals and cement manufacturing.



Net-zero oil is defined as crude oil combined with negative emissions generated through the removal and secure sequestration of captured atmospheric CO2 in an EOR reservoir, in an amount equivalent to the CO2 emissions associated with the complete product lifecycle. In 2022, Oxy and SK Trading International signed an agreement to enable the purchase of up to 200,000 barrels of net-zero oil per year for 5 years to develop net-zero products. In support of the agreement with SK, Oxy would potentially inject and securely store approximately 100,000 



metric tons per year of DAC-sourced CO2 into producing oil and gas formations. This annual quantity is equivalent to the CO2 emissions from the entire lifecycle (extraction, transportation, storage, shipping, refining and combustion) of the crude oil supplied under this agreement. Net-zero oil, which is compatible with existing refinery infrastructure, can help hard-to-abate industries advance their net-zero commitments by providing an affordable, scalable fuel option that does not contribute to additional atmospheric CO2. (Continued on next page)Revolutionize carbon management by applying our 50+ years of leadership in CO2 separation, transportation, use, recycling and storage to invest in and deploy leading-edge technologies, and promote collaboration with industry, government and NGOs, using an integrated approach that benefits Oxy’s stakeholders and the worldTo achieve Net Zero by 2050, next generation fuels with low carbon intensity will be vital to helping industries that depend on conventional internal combustion engines. CO2 captured from the air or anthropogenic CO2 from point sources can be used to make synthetic fuels such as gasoline and even jet fuel, often called Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF).Carbon Engineering’s Air To FuelsTM solution can produce highly scalable synthetic fuels using proven technology. These fuels are drop-in compatible with today’s infrastructure and engines, with up to a 90% emissions reduction factor (ERF) when compared to conventional diesel and jet fuels. The process integrates four growing fields – renewable electricity generation, DAC, green hydrogen production, and sustainable fuel synthesis – to deliver a clean fuel solution. Oxy has selected Worley to provide pre-FEED for the Air To FuelsTM facility. Construction is expected to begin in 2024 in Canada. Carbon Engineering (CE) recently completed Natural Resources Canada’s Sky’s the Limit Challenge, where CE successfully used CO2 sourced from its DAC development center in British Columbia in conjunction with its Air to Fuels™ technology to produce synthetic crude, which was then refined into a low-carbon jet fuel.OLCV has a license to commercialize and deploy CE’s Air to FuelsTM process. For more information on Air To FuelsTM and CE, please see their website.Cemvita Factory’s Sustainable Aviation Fuel  is another alternative synthetic fuel source. OLCV is a founding investor in Cemvita Factory, which has developed a process using CO2 and bioengineered microbes to produce a petroleum-free alternative jet fuel. Cemvita is among the first to utilize this process using synthetic biology, in which microbes consume CO2 and produce useful chemicals or fuels.In 2022, OLCV partnered with United Airlines Ventures to fund pilot production of this SAF by Cemvita Factory.NET POWERNatural gas is an affordable, reliable fuel. Today, the United States alone has approximately 1,900 natural gas power plants that supply electricity, but without carbon capture they contribute to global CO2 emissions. Oxy is an early investor in NET Power, whose technology generates zero-emissions electricity while utilizing and capturing CO2. NET Power is the first to decarbonize natural gas power generation, providing zero-emissions power to deliver affordable clean energy. The technology uses the captured CO2 within its generation process, improving economics and creating reliable, cost-competitive power. NET Power facilities will have a minimal footprint when compared to wind and solar facilities, making them a practical and efficient part of low-carbon power generation. These facilities can be deployed alongside other CO2 reduction technologies, such as DAC, geologic storage or use in products, to further reduce emissions. With its capacity to produce emissions-free, 24/7 energy, NET Power is expected to be a strong complement to renewables like wind and solar. Power generation with zero emissions, competitive cost and continuous production will be an important part of our low-carbon future.In November 2021, NET Power’s 50MW test facility synchronized with Texas’ ERCOT grid for the first time.In November 2022, Oxy announced plans to utilize clean energy generated by NET Power’s first utility scale plant in our Permian oil and gas operations. FEED will begin in early 2023, with construction completion expected in late 2026. The plant will have capacity of 300 MW of clean, dispatchable power, and will produce approximately 860,000 MT of CO2 per year for saline or EOR sequestration. 

GETTING TO ZERO COALITION – GLOBAL 
MARITIME FORUMOxy is a member of the Getting to Zero Coalition, a partnership formed by the Global Maritime Forum, the Friends of Ocean Action and the World Economic Forum. This coalition brings together global decision-makers from across the maritime shipping value chain with key stakeholders from the energy sector and from governments with a Call to Action to reduce shipping-related emissions by at least 50% by 2050, and to
support industrial scale zero-emissions shipping projects and policy measures to make zero-emissions shipping the default choice by 2030.  Oxy recognizes the challenges associated with reducing emissions in the shipping sector. We believe DAC with sequestration can be a key strategy in meeting these goals. PVC AND POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE FOR DIRECT AIR CAPTUREOxyChem is a world leader in the customized production, handling and usage of polyvinyl chloride, which will be a major component in the construction and ongoing operation of DAC facilities. It is also one of the world’s leading producers of potassium hydroxide, the key chemical utilized in CE’s DAC process to separate CO2 for sequestration, carbon-neutral enhanced oil recovery or CO2 product development. 4CPE AUTO REFRIGERANTOxyChem’s Geismar, Louisiana, plant manufactures 4CPe, which is a raw material used in making advanced, low-emissions auto refrigerants. These products have zero ozone-depletion potential and a Global Warming Potential (GWP) of 1 compared to conventional R-134a refrigerant used in the automobile industry, which has a GWP of 1,430. The 4CPe manufacturing process was developed by OxyChem scientists and patented globally. TERRALITHIUMOxy has invested in TerraLithium, which will use patented technologies like Direct Lithium Extraction, which extracts lithium from geothermal waste brines, and direct lithium hydroxide conversion to produce responsible and cost effective ultra-high purity lithium for the rapidly growing lithium-ion battery market. In 2021, the U.S. Patent Trial and Appeal Board affirmed the validity of 28 claims across two of TerraLithium’s patents.
PROJECT AVOID – AUDIO, VISUAL AND OLFACTORY INSPECTION DEVICEIn 2021, Oxy developed a low cost, highly scalable sensor that combines audio, visual and olfactory (AVO) inspection techniques to detect potential emissions at a given location. Throughout 2022, this design was refined to validate accuracy, incorporate image and audio analytics, and provide for intrinsically safe operation. The sensor has been deployed to several locations across Oxy’s Onshore Resources and Carbon Management business units which has resulted in further confirmation of the utility, reliability, and scalability of the sensor in various weather conditions.Oxy is currently preparing for larger-scale deployment across several operated areas and additional work is underway to integrate the data collected from the AVOID sensor into other Oxy operational data sets. The AVOID device enables 24/7 surveillance of remote locations and provides data that goes beyond what is traditionally required during an AVO inspection.  We will continue to work with regulators for approval to replace traditional AVO inspections with the AVOID sensor.CEMVITA FACTORYCemvita has developed technologies for a CO2 utilization platform that mimics photosynthesis, using CO2 as feedstock to produce industrial chemicals and polymers. By commercializing these new bioengineered pathways for CO2, Cemvita harnesses the power of nature to turn captured CO2 into a valuable feedstock that can be used to create sustainable products.In 2021, Cemvita Factory was the winner of the inaugural GS Beyond Energy Innovation Challenge, which evaluates tech startups addressing the emerging energy transition.  “THE USE OF SAF IS A PROMISING APPROACH THAT WE BELIEVE CAN SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE GLOBAL EMISSIONS FROM AVIATION AND FURTHER DECARBONIZATION INITIATIVES TO COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE.” 

– RICHARD JACKSON, PRESIDENT, U.S. ONSHORE RESOURCES AND 
CARBON MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONSOxy is committed to continuously improving operational performance by implementing practices and technologies to reduce our emissions and maximize the use of our natural gas production. Oxy was the first U.S. oil and gas company to endorse the World Bank’s initiative for Zero Routine Flaring (ZRF) by 2030. We are implementing a diverse range of projects to capture natural gas that is currently being flared, and use it to boost energy production, maintain field pressure or sell to third parties. We are an active participant in emissions reduction programs propagated through multiple associations including OGCI, the Methane Guiding Principles, Oil & Gas Methane Partnership (OGMP) 2.0 and The Environmental Partnership (TEP).Through these practices, Oxy achieved ZRF in our Permian Basin operations in 2022, and our Rockies and Gulf of Mexico operations have sustained ZRF since 2020. Our international operations implemented major gas compression and recycling projects in 2022 to significantly reduce flaring, and expect to achieve ZRF well ahead of the World Bank's 2030 target. As Oxy continues to progress toward elimination of routine flaring company-wide, we are also pursuing reduction of non-routine flaring such as during planned maintenance, facility upgrades and third-party plant and pipeline outages. Closed-loop gas capture is a technique being successfully deployed at Oxy facilities in the Delaware Basin to eliminate flaring during plant and pipeline outages or other temporary operational conditions. Gas is temporarily injected into existing wells instead of flaring gas in instances where shutting in production is not feasible due to surface or subsurface conditions.We expect to scale up this innovative gas management technique across our Delaware Basin operations to reduce the need for non-routine flaring. Oxy has received agency approvals for this practice in multiple wells and is submitting additional applications to deploy this solution in Texas and New Mexico. This emissions mitigation technique also complements our installation of tankless facilities which reduce or eliminate oil storage on well pads and route production fluids to central processing facilities.In 2021, Oxy was recognized by the New Mexico Environment Department (NMED) for endorsing the state Environmental Improvement Board’s efforts to reduce flaring through more stringent regulations. These regulations were promoted by a broad coalition of environmental and community groups including the Environmental Defense Fund and the National Park Service. Oxy believes that policies and regulations developed and supported by a consensus of stakeholders who bring different perspectives to the table are more practical and sustainable and can create the best results.REDUCEReduce emissions across our operations through employee-driven innovation and excellence and 
state-of-the-art, cost-effective technologiesMAKING METHANE COUNT – CLOSED-LOOP GAS CAPTURE FLARE MITIGATIONGOLDSMITH 16 MW PV SOLAR Completed in 2019, Oxy’s Goldsmith Solar Plant is a 16 MW photovoltaic solar field and was Texas’ first large-scale solar facility that powers oil and gas operations. The Solar Plant directly powers our EOR operations in Goldsmith, and reduces Scope 2 emissions in that area by significantly reducing the need for consumption of power from the electric grid. This project also advances OGCI's goal of electrifying operations with renewables where possible. In 2021, the facility generated 40,447 MWh of electricity, reducing the Goldsmith EOR field’s emissions by over 15,000 metric tons of CO2 compared to electricity purchased from 
the grid. INFRARED OGI CAMERAS FOR LEAK DETECTIONFacilities subject to state and federal requirements are surveyed using optical gas imaging (OGI) cameras to monitor emissions. Oxy’s operators receive OGI training, which covers the capabilities of the cameras, identifiable gases, camera setup and operation, in-field survey techniques under varying weather conditions, and proper safety practices. Oxy conducts more than 1,000 OGI surveys in our Permian Basin operations annually.EMISSIONS TECHNOLOGY TEAMOxy’s Emissions Technology Team is implementing advanced remote emissions monitoring technologies using drones, aircraft and satellites. The technologies help identify, detect, monitor and predict unplanned emissions events, and alert Oxy’s operations, maintenance and air quality personnel for rapid action. The Emissions Technology Team is also working with technology providers and data scientists to evaluate improvements to techniques that estimate and measure methane emissions, which is a core component of Oxy’s carbon management program. In 2021, Oxy deployed over 50 Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), commonly known as drones, at several of our oil and gas production facilities. At our DJ Basin facilities, we use UAVs to survey thousands of wellheads as part of a voluntary initiative to reduce emissions. In the Permian Basin, UAVs help identify emissions from hard-to-access areas of facilities, such as tank hatches. The program enhances safe access to equipment, reduces cost and facilitates early identification of maintenance issues.This rapidly evolving technology allows us to acquire important operational and environmental data, including detection of emission sources, asset integrity inspection and habitat conservation and restoration. More than 30 Oxy personnel have received Remote Pilot Certificates from the Federal Aviation Administration to operate the drones. In addition, Oxy has employed aircraft-based methane monitoring solutions across large operated areas. In 2022, Oxy surveyed wellheads, facility and pipeline segments across U.S. operations with fixed-wing aircraft, deploying both broad-coverage campaigns and individual asset surveys.Internationally, Oxy has leveraged satellite-based methane monitoring programs to provide weekly coverage for Oxy's operations in Oman.FIND IT | FIX IT | MEASURE IT | PREDICT IT PROGRAMOxy’s Find It, Fix It, Measure It, Predict It program enlists our key resource – our dedicated operators and maintenance personnel – to identify and fix unplanned emissions. The program includes training, inspection and reporting tools for operations personnel and close coordination with Oxy’s Air Quality Team, and leverages reports from on-site and remote-sensing technologies to expedite repairs and minimize emissions. 

REDUCED EMISSIONS COMPLETIONSOxy implements Reduced Emissions Completions to capture gas at the wellhead during completion and minimize releases to the atmosphere. We also plan our drilling programs and facilities in tandem to deploy the necessary infrastructure in advance of well completion where feasible so that methane and other emissions can be captured and sent to processing facilities and pipelines for sale.ELIMINATING HIGH-BLEED PNEUMATIC CONTROLLERSAs part of our commitment to TEP, we remain dedicated to reducing methane emissions by retrofitting or replacing high-bleed pneumatic controllers with lower-bleed or non-emitting devices. We have retrofitted or eliminated more than 95% of high-bleed pneumatic controllers in Oxy’s U.S. oil and gas operations, and we are awaiting delivery of equipment to address the remaining devices in these operations in 2023.INSTALLING VAPOR RECOVERY OR VAPOR 
COMBUSTION UNITSWhen designing new facilities and upgrading existing facilities, Oxy seeks to replace flares and vents where feasible and safe with closed systems that route gas to vapor recovery towers or vapor recovery units (VRUs) that capture volatile organic compounds and methane, or to vapor combustion units (VCUs) to combust excess gas when a VRU is unavailable. The installation of VRUs and VCUs is a key element of our efforts to reduce air emissions and flaring. For example, Oxy’s New Mexico facilities implemented a closed-loop flowback system with a VRU that captures vapor from flowback fluids directly into the gathering system. This gathering system represents a 60% reduction in CO2e flaring emissions compared to a traditional design.
TANKLESS FACILITY DESIGNSOxy’s designs for new oil and gas facilities in the Permian and DJ Basins use pipelines instead of trucks to transport oil to a central processing facility, eliminating the need for oil storage tanks near wells. These innovative facility designs decrease our environmental footprint by reducing emissions, dust, noise and truck traffic.COGENERATION, HYDROGEN USE AND INNOVATION AT OXYCHEMFor nearly two decades, natural gas and steam cogeneration has significantly reduced electrical power usage from the grid at OxyChem’s facilities and adjacent third-party plants, and enabled Oxy to supply surplus electricity to the grid to serve local and regional communities near some of OxyChem’s operations. OxyChem’s Taft, Battleground and Ingleside facilities use hydrogen, a byproduct from the chlor-alkali process, to generate power and reduce its demand for natural gas. Hydrogen substitution has reduced OxyChem’s CO2 emissions by 490,000 MT annually, as well as its GHG intensity. In May 2022, the U.S. Department of Energy honored OxyChem as a Better Practice Award winner, which recognizes companies for innovative and industry-leading accomplishments in energy management. OxyChem received the recognition for incorporating an engineering, training and development program that led to process changes, resulting in energy savings that reduced CO2 emissions by 7,000 metric tons annually. POINT-SOURCE CAPTUREPoint-Source Carbon Capture, Utilization and Sequestration (CCUS) projects are vital to society’s ability to reach our common net-zero goals. These projects allow industrial emitters to capture CO2 and convert it into an array of valuable products, either physical products like hydrocarbons and aggregates, or instruments such as verified carbon dioxide removal credits from sequestration. The OLCV team leverages Oxy’s 50+ years of carbon management to engage in a wide range of CCUS project development, as well as advisory services. •	Ethanol – White Energy and Project Interseqt: This first-of-its-kind, cross-industry partnership plans to utilize 45Q tax credits to accelerate carbon capture infrastructure development, reduce CO2 emissions and securely store CO2 through geologic sequestration. This project is expected to capture up to 700,000 metric tons per year of CO2 emissions from two of White Energy’s ethanol plants in Hereford and Plainview, Texas. Captured CO2 will then be transported to Oxy’s West Seminole EOR field for injection and sequestration. For White Energy, the removal of CO2 emissions from their operations also reduces the carbon intensity of the ethanol they produce. Oxy and White Energy have submitted a design-based pathway application to the California Air Resources Board (CARB) to obtain credits under Tier II of the California Low Carbon Fuel Standard.•	Biofuels – Velocys’ Bayou Fuels: The Bayou Fuels facility will take biomass and convert it into various alternative fuels for the transportation industry. Once completed, OLCV will capture and transport the CO2 produced from the facility and sequester it securely underground. This will help make the facility a net-negative emitter of CO2. •	Cement – Holcim Portland Cement Plant, Colorado: In conjunction with Svante Inc., LafargeHolcim, Kiewit Engineering Group Inc. and TotalEnergies, OLCV evaluated a proposed commercial-scale carbon capture facility at the Holcim Portland Cement Plant in Florence, Colorado.Advisory services include consulting, engineering, project development and operational management of sequestration sites across the project lifecycle. Engagements and deliverables include feasibility studies, financial models, tax credit assessments, peer reviews and CO2 monitoring programs. Oxy’s specialized project engineering services integrate a number of disciplines, covering areas from engineering protocols and regulatory processes to the latest technical advances. We provide expertise in capture plant engineering as well as storage site selection, seismic analysis, reservoir modeling and well engineering for geologic storage.  Project Tundra is an initiative to build the world’s largest carbon capture facility at the Milton R. Young Station in North Dakota. The project envisages capture and sequestration of about 4 million metric tons of CO2 per year. Minnkota Power Cooperative is leading the project, along with research support from the Energy & Environmental Research Center at the University of North Dakota. In 2021 the project received a Class VI permit for CO2 storage from the state of North Dakota, one of two states authorized by the U.S. EPA to implement an underground injection control program for Class VI injection wells under the Safe Drinking Water Act. With over 50 years of carbon management experience, Oxy partnered with Minnkota Power Cooperative to provided Carbon Storage Consulting Services for Project Tundra.NET POWEROxy is an investor in NET Power, which utilizes the NET Power Cycle to generate zero-emissions power from natural gas and captured CO2. In addition, excess captured CO2 can be used in other processes such as EOR or manufacturing of low-carbon products.  Currently, there are nearly a dozen NET Power projects being developed around the world.CEMVITA RESEARCH FACILITY/PILOT PLANTOxy and bio-engineering startup Cemvita Factory announced 
a plan to construct and operate a one metric ton per month 
bio-ethylene pilot plant, applying a jointly developed technology using 
human-made CO2 instead of hydrocarbon-sourced feedstocks. The pilot project will scale up the process that was successful in laboratory tests, which demonstrated the technology can be competitive with hydrocarbon-sourced ethylene processes. Ethylene is widely used in the chemical industry, primarily as a precursor to polymers, creating durable, long-life products.REUSE/RECYCLEReuse and recycle CO2 with technologies and partnerships that use captured CO2 to enhance existing products and produce new low-carbon or zero-emissions products BUILDING DIRECT AIR CAPTURE: BREAKING GROUND 
ON A GROUNDBREAKING SOLUTIONOxy formed 1PointFive as a development company to commercialize Carbon Engineering’s innovative DAC technology at an industrial scale. 1PointFive holds an exclusive license from CE for DAC deployment in the U.S. and OLCV has a worldwide agreement as the execution partner for all DAC deployments. DAC captures CO2 from the atmosphere and is regarded by the IPCC, the IEA and other international organizations as a key technology to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement.  DAC works by pulling air into a large air-contactor system, which resembles a cooling tower with a series of large fans. The air comes in contact with a solution of potassium hydroxide (KOH, one of OxyChem’s products), resulting in a chemical reaction that traps CO2 from the air in a liquid solution. The CO2 can then be extracted, purified and used to produce low-carbon fuels and products or injected into subsurface formations for sequestration.In early 2022, Oxy announced 1PointFive’s objective to develop up to 70 DAC plants around the world by 2035 under the then-current policy and market support scenario, and up to 135 plants by 2035 under a net-zero support scenario, which assumes an increase in global policy incentives and demand in markets led by global net-zero targets. The Inflation Reduction Act, signed into law in August 2022, reflects a key step in net-zero policy support, with increased incentives that could further accelerate DAC deployment in the U.S. as a solution to help achieve net zero. Implementation of the IRA should enable an updated DAC development scenario of up to 100 plants by 2035. We believe that public policy incentives and investments are critical for enabling the early deployment and scale-up of DAC and other CCUS technologies and supporting infrastructure. The IRA's support for DAC and other CCUS technologies that Oxy is actively developing is expected to accelerate their commercialization. Any change in the legislation could hamper progress, and other regulatory, technological and market risks remain. The siting, construction and operation of both capture and storage or sequestration facilities and associated infrastructure are also subject to federal, state and local regulatory and permitting requirements.DAC is a novel process that has not yet been implemented at a commercial scale; however, Oxy mitigates this risk through a multi-pronged approach including: use of established technology wherever practical; use of materials produced by our OxyChem subsidiary; and preference for materials and equipment sourced through well-established suppliers and channels. In September 2022, 1PointFive commenced site construction activities for the first large-scale DAC plant (DAC-1) in Ector County, Texas, near Oxy’s portfolio of acreage and infrastructure that is conducive to storage of CO2. The project is expected to employ more than 1,000 people during the construction phase and up to 75 once operational. Start-up is expected in late 2024. Oxy also entered into an agreement with Origis Energy to provide zero-emission solar power for the DAC plant and other projects in the Permian Basin.DAC-1 is designed to be built and commissioned in stages. The first stage is expected to remove up to 500,000 metric tons of atmospheric CO2 annually, with the potential to install a second stage to remove an additional 500,000 metric tons of CO2. DAC-1 serves as a launching point for the acceleration of commercial-scale DAC deployment as critical infrastructure to help governments and companies around the world meet net-zero targets. In late 2022, OLCV and Natural Resource Partners L.P. (NRP) announced the execution of an agreement for the evaluation and potential development of a CO2 sequestration hub located in southeast Texas. The agreement provides OLCV with the exclusive rights to develop a hub on approximately 65,000 acres of pore space controlled by NRP. The site, with an approximate total CO2 storage potential of at least 500 million metric tons, offers proximity to a large number of industrial CO2 emitters.REMOVERemove existing CO2 from the atmosphere in significant amounts for beneficial use and safe, secure sequestration by developing, proving and deploying innovative capture technologies and market mechanisms at commercial scale to further the goals of the Paris AgreementCARBON ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY: HOW IT WORKSFor more details on this process see Carbon Engineering’s website.In addition, 1PointFive and King Ranch, a privately held agricultural production and resource management company, announced a lease agreement to support large-scale DAC projects on 106,000 acres in Kleberg County, Texas. The agreement provides access to land for the potential to remove up to 30 million metric tons of CO2 per year through DAC and pore space with an estimated capacity to store up to 3 billion metric tons of CO2 in geologic formations. Oxy has started the pre-FEED for a new DAC facility on the King Ranch.Building and deploying DAC at scale is widely recognized as a game-changer by international organizations like the IPCC and IEA, the U.S. government, and those who analyze technology trends.  For example, In November 2022, Oxy’s President and CEO Vicki Hollub received TrendHunter’s Innovation Strategy Award for the Most Ambitious Challenge for Oxy’s sustained innovation to build the world’s largest DAC facility.

SEQUESTRATION HUB DEVELOPMENTOxy has among the largest CO2 management operations in the world. This subsurface expertise enables us to broaden our portfolio of storage options beyond oil and gas fields to include sequestration hubs using saline formations. A key differentiator is our comprehensive, enterprise-wide strategy, which is predicated on our 50+ years of experience with integrated carbon management and large-scale carbon separation, transportation, recycling and storage applied in our EOR business. By leveraging this expertise, we are positioned for success in a net-zero economy with a competitive advantage that enhances our existing business and sets us apart from our peers. During 2021 and 2022, OLCV entered into agreements for more than 265,000 net acres of pore space access, primarily in Louisiana and Texas, with a capacity to sequester up to 6 billion metric tons of CO2 and has filed permit applications for multiple Class VI sequestration wells. Oxy is expected to have 3 sequestration hubs online by 2025 under a current policy and market support scenario. These projects are subject to funding, permitting, ongoing technological maturation, achieving cost reductions in deployment, construction and operation, and continued development of global markets for carbon removal credits and low-carbon or net-zero fuels and products.

CDR CREDITS: CARBON DIOXIDE REMOVAL CREDITSWith DAC development underway, 1PointFive is partnering with industries looking to achieve their net-zero commitments through the use of high-quality and durable CDR credits. Although the voluntary carbon markets are nascent and evolving rapidly, we expect an increasing demand for CDR credits from investors and businesses as part of their decarbonization efforts. Markets for CDR credits will need to develop to support the growth in capture and storage solutions.During 2022, 1PointFive and Airbus announced an agreement for the offtake of technologically-engineered CDR credits in an amount of 100,000 metric tons per year for four years from DAC-1 utilizing sequestration without oil and gas production. Since the announcement, Airbus has coordinated with a group of airlines interested in acquiring a portion of the offtake. CDR credits are expected to play a key role for the airline industry as it moves to decarbonize by 2050.  

In late 2021, BMO Financial became the first bank to pre-purchase CDR credits generated from DAC facilities; these CDR credits were purchased from Carbon Engineering and will be delivered by 1PointFive’s DAC projects. London-based climate solutions business BeZero Carbon facilitated this transaction. Removals generated using CE’s DAC technology along with geologic sequestration achieves a rating of AAA+ on the BeZero Carbon Rating Framework.CARBON FINANCE LABSAs DAC and CCUS projects gain traction, there will be a need for defined, accepted and transparent carbon tracking processes to open new markets for Oxy products. OLCV’s Carbon Finance Labs (CFL) venture seeks to do this by leveraging new information technology, updated regulations and marketplaces to craft solutions that create entirely new high-value carbon products and services.  Oxy and CFL are among the cofounders of the Carbon Capture and Storage Plus (CCS+) Initiative, the most comprehensive CCS methodology-writing process to date, and have been actively involved in its development to ensure high-integrity, quality, and transparency of the methodology. The CCS+ methodology is pending approval by Verified Carbon Standard (VERRA).  OxyChem is collaborating with its customers to track product-level carbon intensity information across the value chain through the software platform CarbonSig from CFL. This blockchain-based carbon tracking software will aid in Scope 3 emissions reporting. OxyChem sends a sustainability survey to its key suppliers and customers to receive information regarding their sustainability efforts and potential collaboration to enhance environmental and business performance. These surveys demonstrate that OxyChem and its suppliers and customers have similar net-zero emissions goals and are often interested in strengthening business relationships while removing carbon from OxyChem’s value chain.