Oxy's integrated business model unifies our talented, diverse workforce with best-in-class assets and industry leadership to advance a low-carbon future. Founded in 1920, Oxy’s success is built on technical expertise, business acumen, strong partnerships and our proven ability to deliver lasting results. Oxy is an international energy company with assets primarily in the United States, the Middle East and North Africa. We are one of the largest oil producers in the U.S., including leading positions in the Permian and Denver-Julesburg Basins, and offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. Our midstream and marketing segment purchases, markets, gathers, processes, transports, and stores oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, natural gas, carbon dioxide (CO2), and power. Our chemical subsidiary, OxyChem, is a leading manufacturer of chlorine, caustic soda, caustic potash, PVC resins and chlorinated organics — key building blocks to life-enhancing products such as pharmaceuticals, water treatment chemicals, building materials and plastics. Our Oxy Low Carbon Ventures (OLCV) subsidiary is advancing leading-edge technologies, products and services that economically grow our business while reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.We conduct our business in a manner that safeguards our employees and contractors, benefits neighboring communities, strengthens regional economies and advances innovative solutions to global environmental challenges. Our employees drive our commitment to serve as an innovative and sustainable leader in the effort to accelerate the successful transition to a low-carbon future.We take great pride in our constructive engagement with investors, customers, non-profit organizations, host governments and communities throughout our operations. Oxy continually evaluates ways that we can integrate sustainability throughout the company, improve our programs and performance, and transparently share our progress with stakeholders. We invite you to explore 
the content featured throughout this Sustainability Report and additional information available at Oxy.com.STATEMENT FROM THE CEO Sustainability is a guiding principle at Oxy, influencing the way we operate our businesses, empower our employees, engage with our stakeholders and contribute to society. 
We believe our service as a leader in promoting the sustainability of the broader world around us is integral to our long-term success. Our Board of Directors, management team and talented workforce share this vision.We continue to make meaningful progress on our environmental, social and governance (ESG) commitments and efforts to develop products, services and solutions 
that improve lives, advance an inclusive and equitable low-carbon future, and support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Oxy was the first U.S. oil and gas company to endorse the World Economic Forum’s Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics, a global ESG framework that promotes transparency with investor and stakeholder engagement.  We were also the first U.S. oil and gas company to establish goals to achieve net-zero GHG emissions for our total carbon inventory in Scope 1, 2 and 3, including in our operations and energy use before 2040 and in the use of our sold products before 2050. Oxy’s commitment to the Paris Agreement is evident in our ambitious interim targets to achieve significant GHG emission reductions in our operations by 2024, to lower carbon and methane intensities of our products by 2025, to end routine gas flaring by 2030, and to facilitate the storage and utilization in our value chain of large quantities of carbon dioxide captured from the atmosphere or industrial sources by 2032. To achieve these goals, our employees are deploying new ideas, practices and technologies to enhance the safety, efficiency and environmental quality of our operations. At the same time, we are leveraging our 50 years of carbon management expertise with innovative partnerships and leading-edge technologies to benefit our company and society. Oxy’s pathway to net zero prioritizes sustained investment in our people and communities. Our Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging program guides our recruitment, development and retention of the best talent in a competitive marketplace. We value the communities where we live and work, with active outreach to understand local interests and needs, obtain feedback about our operations, and promote shared prosperity.I want to thank the Sustainability and Shareholder Engagement Committee of our Board of Directors, which oversees our sustainability-related policies and active stakeholder dialogue. With their support, our management team engages with shareholders and diverse organizations including the U.N.-sponsored Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) and the CCS+ Initiative. In accordance with the Energy Transition Principles and Methane Guiding Principles, we have published our Climate Policy Positions and our Climate Advocacy and Engagement on our company website. Oxy is committed to contributing to society through 
ESG leadership that advances a more sustainable and equitable world. We will do this with the support of our Board, the creativity and vision of our employees and with guidance from you, our stakeholders. We look forward to working together.Vicki HollubPresident and CEO“Oxy is committed to contributing to society through ESG leadership that advances a more sustainable and equitable world.”PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS AND PROGRESS ON 
OUR COMMITMENTSWe believe our core differentiators—an industry-leading portfolio, track record of operational excellence, and strategy to achieve net-zero GHG emissions—enable us 
to deliver long-term enterprise value and demonstrate 
our commitment to environmental stewardship. Safety 
is integral to our company’s culture and we had our best ever safety performance in 2020. Our safety record is exemplary in the oil and gas and chemical industries 
and in comparison even to office-based occupations.We were pleased to be ranked among Fortune’s Most Admired Companies in the Mining, Crude-Oil Production category in 2021. Oxy has made the list every reported 
year since 2008, and has achieved the number 1 ranking 
11 times. In November 2021, Oxy was recognized by the Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI) as one of only three global oil and gas firms to have set emissions reduction targets which are ambitious enough to reach net-zero by 2050 and to align with TPI’s 1.5°C benchmark.In December 2021, Oxy became the first U.S. upstream oil and gas company to incorporate an ESG performance metric into its credit facilities, including its $4 billion revolving credit facility and $400 million receivables securitization facility. Oxy worked closely with the Sustainability Structuring Agents and other members of our bank group to develop an appropriate metric that aligns with the shared net-zero goals of Oxy and our lenders. OxyChem is a four-time winner of the American Chemistry Council's (ACC’s) top safety performance award in recognition of OxyChem's outstanding achievements in environmental, health, safety and security performance. OxyChem is helping address the global clean water crisis. Through our partnership with Water Mission, approximately 1 million people in vulnerable developing countries have gained access to safe drinking water, made hygienic with OxyChem’s ACL® products. This industry-leading sustainability partnership was honored in 2020 with the prestigious Sustainability Leadership Award from the ACC.OxyChem is proud to be a founding member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, which seeks to eliminate plastic waste in the environment and to develop and promote solutions for used plastics by helping to enable a circular economy. This global effort consists of companies in the plastics value chain, including chemical and plastic manufacturers, consumer goods companies, retailers, and waste management companies.To further our sustainability vision, OxyChem joined Operation Clean Sweep Blue, a product stewardship program designed to manage plastic resins so that they do not enter the environment, including waterways.OUR COMMITMENT PROGRESS NOTES Support for OLCV and associated CCUS/CO2 
investments/partnerships.»	Advance Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS) projects by conducting Front End Engineering and Design (FEED) on projects capturing/reducing emissions on 75 MMcfd of CO2; advance CCUS technology by investing, testing or trialing 2 projects; and, develop pre-FEED/feasibility projects capturing 500 MMcfd of CO2. Ongoing Support OGCI. Ongoing See also: OCGI  Engage with investors on ESG issues, and 
respond to ESG risk ratings and questionnaires.»	Oxy is committed to reporting climate-related risks and opportunities 
aligned with the TCFD recommendations.»	Community investment supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Ongoing Engage with investors on ESG issues, and respond 
to ESG risk ratings and questionnaires.»	Oxy endorses the Energy Transition Principles.»	Oxy endorses the WEF-IBC Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics.»	OxyChem is committed to Operation Clean Sweep Blue, to disclose practices 
and prevent releases of plastic resins. New GOVERNANCE, PEOPLE AND PROSPERITYOUR COMMITMENT PROGRESS NOTES Monitor and disclose Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions.»	Oxy is committed to disclosing its operational GHG emissions from (Scope 1 and 2) as well as Scope 3 emissions associated with the Use of its Sold Products.»	OxyChem has a target to reduce operational GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 2.33% by 2025. Ongoing See also Oxy’s Climate Change Questionnaire to CDP Monitor and disclose Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions intensity.»	Aligned with OGCI, Oxy has set a target to reduce upstream oil and gas emissions intensity to 0.02 MTCO2e/BOE by 2025.»	Reduce total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 3.68 million MTCO2e by 2024.»	OxyChem has a target to reduce GHG intensity of its products 
(MTCO2e/ton of product) 2.7% by 2025. Ongoing Monitor and disclose methane emissions intensity.»	Aligned with OGCI, Oxy set a target to reduce methane emissions intensity from oil and gas operations to below 0.25% (based on marketed gas) by 2025. Ongoing Oxy is committed to end routine natural gas flaring by 2030.»	Oxy was the first U.S. oil and gas company to commit to the World Bank's “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” initiative.  Ongoing See also: 
The World Bank’s “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” Fulfill The Environmental Partnership commitments for leak detection surveys and emissions-reducing equipment such as high-bleed pneumatics replacement. Ongoing See also: The Environmental Partnership PLANETABOUT THIS REPORTOxy’s sustainability reporting focuses on the policies, objectives, performance and activities of the company and the interests of its key stakeholders. To determine the most significant issues to our stakeholders and our business, Oxy conducted an engagement and benchmarking exercise to evaluate our priority ESG topics and associated programs, performance and goals. We actively monitor company and industry specific ESG risks and opportunities in concert with external stakeholder issues to support the assessment of significant and emerging topic areas. In early 2021, we interviewed employees from across the company to gain their insights on the areas of strategic importance to Oxy and our stakeholders. Based on the findings, we refined 
our assessment of significant ESG topics and alignment 
of reporting disclosures contained in this report. Our reporting process is also informed by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association’s (IPIECA’s) Sustainability Reporting Guidance and our performance disclosures are aligned with the 
Value Reporting Foundation (using the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Standards for the oil and 
gas and chemical sectors) and the ACC’s Responsible Care® initiative. This report is organized in accordance 
with the Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics of the World Economic Forum (WEF) and its International Business Council (IBC). The WEF-IBC’s Four Pillars of Stakeholder Capitalism represent key areas of strategic focus for 
Oxy, and they will guide our reporting as we continue to implement and enhance sustainable business practices and disclose performance.Complementing the WEF’s pillars, seven reporting principles guide the structure and content of Oxy’s reporting process.1RELEVANCEThe content represents stakeholder perspectives on the most relevant sustainability issues and the topics that Oxy considers most significant to our business operations and our stakeholders. We have also aligned performance indicators to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards and with the IPIECA Sustainability Reporting Guidance, both of which were developed to establish consistent industry-specific disclosure across ESG topics and facilitate communication between companies, investors and other key stakeholders.2SCOPE Our reporting provides information on our global operations across our oil and gas, chemical, and midstream and marketing segments, sustainability and community programs and their effects on our stakeholders including shareholders, employees, contractors and suppliers, customers, joint venture partners, NGOs, governments and the communities where we operate.3BOUNDARYOur reporting boundary includes Oxy's operated oil and gas, chemical and midstream and marketing assets, with Oxy Low Carbon Ventures included within the midstream and marketing segment. Unless otherwise indicated, quantitative performance data are based on Oxy’s operational control and do not include outside-operated joint ventures or facilities, customers or other end-users of Oxy’s products.4INTEGRATION AND ALIGNMENTAs part of our reporting process, Oxy's executive leadership and Board of Directors are engaged to align strategic focus and to set long-term direction. Oxy has adopted an Operational Management System based on its longstanding HSE Management System, which sets consistent worldwide expectations for business managers and employees throughout our operations to assess and manage performance and risks.1.	Principles of Governance 2.	Planet 
3.	People 
4.	Prosperity 5CREDIBILITYWe develop, review and verify our disclosures and data with our business and corporate functions, provide supporting data and balanced information on performance and explain the basis for our estimates. We update our reporting if we identify errors, obtain additional data or improve methodologies.6TRANSPARENCY We aim to provide clear, understandable, factual information to address topics about which our key stakeholders have expressed an interest and to continue to refine and improve our associated processes.7TIMELINESSAnnual performance data and indicators are provided through year-end 2020, except where indicated.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTStakeholder engagement is a central activity at Oxy and a catalyst for continuous improvement in our ESG policies, practices and reporting. We build trust with our stakeholders through regular and transparent communication and consistent actions. Stakeholder engagement covers a wide range of activities, from shareholder engagements and discussion of specific projects with neighbors and permitting authorities to interaction with community representatives and civic organizations to identify how the company can assist in sustainable and inclusive economic development.The stakeholder engagement process includes the identification of key stakeholders; an assessment of stakeholder interests and issues; an evaluation of the community’s socioeconomic needs, if applicable; and
the development and implementation of a stakeholder engagement plan.Oxy’s managers hold regular dialogue, meetings and consultations with stakeholder groups. Oxy welcomes and considers all feedback from stakeholders on its performance, engagement and reporting. As a Partner of Choice®, we pursue collaborative efforts throughout our business operations. By working with local partners, we seek to create shared value for the company and our key stakeholders, including host governments, local community members and customers. Our objectives are aligned with the UN SDGs. The SDGs provide us with a complementary framework to use and to communicate our supportive role with host governments. Oxy is incorporating the SDGs into our sustainability strategy and seeks to identify additional opportunities to help countries, regions and communities where we operate make progress toward achieving the goals.