Product and Turnkey Solutions - Market and Applications We offer an array of green hydrogen solutions that address every step of operations, including:Green hydrogen production through electrolysis: Plug electrolyzers use technology called proton exchange membrane (PEM) water electrolysis that can be paired with renewable and intermittent sources of energy such as solar, wind, and hydro-electric power to produce green hydrogen at a low cost to customers. Large markets for green hydrogen include companies producing steel, fertilizer, oil and gas, and chemicals like ammonia and methanol, fuel for fuel cell vehicles like buses and long-haul trucks, and power generation.Hydrogen liquefaction: Plug liquifies hydrogen for transportation at atmospheric pressure and temperatures below -400OF resulting in extremely high efficiency.Hydrogen transportation: Plug designs and manufactures cryogenic trailers and mobile storage equipment for hydrogen and other markets. This enables efficient long-distance transportation of liquid and gaseous hydrogen to meet customer needs.Hydrogen compression and storage: Plug’s hydrogen compression and storage system comprises of a bulk liquid storage that can hold between 15,000 to 18,000 gallons of liquid hydrogen at -423ºF, compressors and liquid pumps to compress to 7,000 psi and gaseous storage tubes that can hold up to 120 kg of gaseous hydrogen — enabling on site storage at customer locations for a variety of fuel cell applications.Hydrogen refueling stations for dispensing: Plug’s hydrogen dispenser systems are available at 350 bar and 700 bar for mobility and material handling applications. The dispenser systems display a user interface system and state-of-the art safety systems. Plug has more than 165 hydrogen refueling stations at sites across the U.S. addressing a variety of material handling and mobility requirements.Hydrogen fuel cells: Plug develops and manufactures PEM-based fuel cells that power forklifts, fork-trucks, Class 6 through Class 8 trucks, and serve as backup or primary generators at distribution and data centers. Fuel cells are also being used now at charging stations for electric vehicles (EVs). We provide green hydrogen solutions to replace batteries in electric material handling vehicles and industrial trucks for some of the world’s largest distribution and manufacturing businesses such as Amazon, Walmart, Home Depot and Lowe’s to name a few. We are focusing our efforts on industrial mobility applications, including electric forklifts and electric industrial vehicles, at multi shift high-volume manufacturing and high-throughput distribution sites where we believe our products and services provide a unique combination of productivity, flexibility, and environmental benefits. Additionally, we manufacture and sell fuel cell products to replace diesel generators in stationary backup power applications for data centers, telecommunications, transportation, and utility customers. Other Plug services include our ongoing Internet of Things-based maintenance and on-site service program for material handling fuel cells, mobility and stationary fuels cells, hydrogen compression, storage, and dispensing systems.Aside from these products and services, there are immense opportunities for others to capitalize on the green hydrogen momentum. New market applications such as green hydrogen commercial fleet vehicles, stationary power, aerospace, and more are emerging to disrupt diesel and fossil fuel run industries. For example, Class 3 to Class 8 commercial fleet vehicles Our PEM Technology for last, middle mile, and long-haul journeys are being built for zero emissions hydrogen use cases. Along with transportation applications, we are developing UAVs and drones through our acquisition of EnergyOr. This technology is addressing the long flight time gap in UAVs today. We are excited about what the future holds for our innovation here at Plug and will continue to hire the best talent to develop these sustainable solutions!1US Department of Energy, “Fuel Cells Fact Sheet”,https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/files/2015/11/f27/fcto_fuel_cells_fact_sheet.pdfOur hydrogen fuel cell and hydrogen electrolyzers utilize transformative proton exchange membrane (PEM) technology to displace internal combustion engines and generate hydrogen. Our hydrogen fuel cell is a clean energy power generator that combines hydrogen and oxygen to produce electricity, with water and heat as by-products. Simply put, HFC’s can be used to power anything from commercial vehicles to drones and data centers by substituting a conventional engine with our fuel cell, like how an electric vehicle replaces an internal combustion engine with a battery. Hydrogen fuel cell technology offers the advantages of a clean and reliable alternative energy source to customers in three markets with large scale opportunities: power, product, and mobility. Figure _ presents how a PEM fuel cell generates electricity with zero greenhouse gas emissions. Hydrogen passes through the PEM to generate energy with water and oxygen as the by-product. [harmonize fuel cell and elx schematics]Developed by one of the most experienced teams in the world in PEM electrolysis, Plug’s electrolyzers generate clean hydrogen with zero CO2 emissions by splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen, a process called water electrolysis. Electrolysis is the exact opposite of the fuel cell process with water and electricity as inputs and hydrogen and oxygen as the outputs.