Our Commitments By adding ESG values into Plug’s business model, we look to achieve reduced costs, improve worker’s productivity, mitigate risks potential, while keeping in focus the best parameters to measure our sustainability goals: People, Planet and Profit. Now more than ever, our customers and stakeholders are focused on the carbon footprint of their operations as well as the footprint of their suppliers. This has been a driving force in the shift toward clean energy, electrification, and zero-carbon fuels. Our mission is to build a green hydrogen economy with solutions that lower carbon footprints, increase productivity, and lower operating costs. This mission is powered by our employees, customers, community partners, suppliers, business partners, and investors. Our commitment to the environment is reflected, not only through the impacts of our products in operation, but also through the impacts of our manufacturing processes and our products’ end-to-end life cycle. We are committed to resource efficiency, responsible design, materials management, and recycling. Innovation “The promise of green hydrogen is here today – driven by Plug’s innovation and the vision of our customers.” – Andy Marsh, CEO Plug’s technological advancements aim to cause positive disruptions to business. We are enabling the transition to a green hydrogen economy by offering turnkey solutions that increase productivity while lowering emissions in sectors that have been traditionally hard to decarbonize. We aim to displace the use of diesel and other fossil fuels in power, mobility, industrial applications, and more. Through our work on hydrogen fuel cells, we are proud to be a part of the transition to a cleaner and more sustainable future. We remain committed to driving innovation and accelerating the adoption of clean energy technologies to create a more sustainable world for future generations. We are committed to building out a first-of-a-kind green hydrogen generation network targeting 500 tons per day (TPD) of green hydrogen production in North America by 2025, and 1,000 TPD globally by 2028. This is important to our company, customers, and communities as we work together to reduce carbon emissions. Our PEM Technology Our hydrogen fuel cells and hydrogen electrolyzers utilize transformative PEM technology to displace internal combustion engines and generate hydrogen. Our hydrogen fuel cell is a clean energy power generator that combines hydrogen and oxygen to produce electricity with water and heat as by-products. Simply put, HFCs can be used to power anything from commercial vehicles to drones and data centers by substituting a conventional engine with our fuel cell, like how an electric vehicle replaces an internal combustion engine with a battery. Hydrogen fuel cell technology offers the advantages of aclean and reliable alternative energy source to customers in three markets with large-scale opportunities: power, product, and mobility. Developed by one of the most experienced teams in the world in PEM electrolysis, Plug’s electrolyzers generate clean hydrogen with zero CO2  emissions by splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen, a process called water electrolysis. Electrolysis is the exact opposite of the fuel cell process with water and electricity as inputs and hydrogen and oxygen as the outputs. We are proud to continue our R&D efforts to increase efficiency in our PEM fuel cells and electrolyzers, while reducing the use of precious metals, allowing for continued improvement in capital costs and lower environmental impacts. Governance - Board of Directors Plug’s business is conducted under the oversight of our Board of Directors (the Board of Directors or Board). The primary responsibility of the Board is to oversee and review senior management’s business and operations performance. The number of directors of the Company is currently fixed at ten (10) and the Board currently consists of  ten (10) members. The Board is divided into three (3) classes with four (4) directors in Class I, three (3) directors in Class II, and three (3) directors in Class III. Directors in Classes I, II, and III serve for three-year terms with one class of directors being elected by the Company’s stockholders at each Annual Meeting of Stockholders. In 2022, Plug added Jean A. Bua and Kavita Mahtani who bring leadership in key areas, such as mergers abd acquisitions strategy implementation, financial planning and analysis, global financial operations, and compliance. They will join Plug’s Audit Committee with Ms. Bua serving as the committee chair. Plug recognizes and values inclusive leadership. Increasing the diversity of our governing bodies, senior leadership team, and workforce is one of Plug’s top priorities, and our Board of Directors is currently comprised of 30% women. The positions of Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chairman of the Board (the Chairman of the Board or Chairman) are currently separated, with Andrew J. Marsh serving as our CEO since 2008 and George C. McNamee serving as Chairman since 1997. Separating these positions allows our Chief Executive Officer to set the strategic direction of the Company and focus on the Company’s day-to-day business operations, while allowing the Chairman to lead the Board in fulfilling its oversight role of management and risk management practices, approving the agenda for Board meetings and presiding over Board meetings and over the meetings of our independent directors in executive sessions. While our Bylaws and corporate governance guidelines do not require that our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer positions be separate, the Board believes that our current leadership structure is appropriate because it provides an effective balance between strategy development and independent leadership and management oversight. Our Board understands that there are differing views on the most appropriate Board leadership structure depending on a company’s specific characteristics and circumstances. Our Board annually reviews its leadership structure to determine whether it continues to best serve the Company and its stockholders. We will notify our stockholders if the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer positions are combined promptly upon the Board’s decision. Committees of Board of Directors The Board has established five (5) standing committees to exercise oversight and provide guidance related to risks within the purview of each. • The Audit Committee oversees risks related to accounting matters, financial reporting, and legal and regulatory compliance, oversees the accounting and financial reporting processes and audits of the financial statements; and has responsibility for evaluation and oversight of qualifications, independence, and performance of the independent auditors. • The Compensation Committee oversees risks related to compensation matters, evaluates compensation policies, plans, and programs; and has responsibility for assessment of executive officers and management team. • The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee oversees risks related to management and Board succession planning, maintains through annual review and reassessment the Corporate Governance Guidelines, evaluates the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, and has primary oversight responsibility for our ESG program as outlined in the committee’s charter. • The Regulatory Affairs Committee oversees risks related to the regulatory scheme applicable to our industry. • The Merger & Acquisition / Strategy Committee oversees strategic transactions, opportunities for growth, and the risks related thereto. The Board plays a central role in overseeing and evaluating risk-management procedures and protocols whereas management is responsible for identifying and managing exposure to risk on a day-to.day basis in accordance with the Board’s Delegation of Authority Policy. The Board receives periodic reports from each of the three (3) standing committees and any ad-hoc committees that may be established from time to time to address discreet matters, as well as regular reports from senior management on areas of material risk to the Company, including operational, financial, reputational, legal, regulatory, cybersecurity. and strategic risks. The Board and all committees regularly engage with management on major risk exposures, their potential impact on the Company, and the steps we take to manage them. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and the General Counsel report to the Board regarding ongoing risk management activities at the quarterly Board meetings and may submit additional reports, as needed. Additionally, risk management is a standing agenda item for the quarterly Audit Committee meetings. For additional information on our Board of Directors and company governance, please refer to our 2022 Proxy Statement on the Investor Relations section of our website: Click here for the 2022 proxy statement Our governance documents, Board committee charters, and Code of Conduct can be found here: Governance Documents Cultural Competencies and Code of Conduct Plug is a loyal, ethical, people-first company for employees, customers, shareholders, and the community — working together to build the green hydrogen economy. We are committed to excellence, providing our customers with the ability to seamlessly adopt end-to-end fuel cell and hydrogen solutions to power, fuel, and provide service for their application needs, regardless of market. The Code of Conduct is expected to be upheld by non-employee members of the Board of Directors, as well as contractors, vendors, suppliers, consultants, and other parties doing business with Plug. It is the responsibility of all members of the organization to remain familiar with the content of the Code of Conduct as may be updated from time to time and to act in a manner compliant with our policy expectations. Plug’s Code of Conduct is framed around our established cultural values: innovate, communicate, act humble but gutsy, collaborate, respect, and be true. These are intended to help lead our business to prosperity, but more importantly, to ensure pride in the means of attaining success. Innovate Create new ideas, approaches and technologies that change the world. Be insatiably curious, confident - learn & adapt quickly. Constantly strive to exceed expectations. Communicate Listen and seek to understand. Hear inspiration and seek expertise from across the globe. Communicate openly and honestly, be transparent. Humble but GutsyEmbrace new opportunities with a fearless, action-oriented perspective. Learn and iterate. Truly game-changing ideas are rarely safe. Collaborate Be inclusive and involve the right people. Let go where appropriate and trust yourteam members to do their part. Respect Respect each other and individual unique experiences and expertise. Treat everyone with dignity, compassion, and professionalism. True Act with integrity. Be helpful. Do the right thing. To read the full Code of Conduct, please see the Investor Relations (Governance) section of our website. https://www.ir.plugpower.com/esg/default.aspx Further business ethics and compliance policies are detailed in the Appendix of this report. Our Strategy - Green Hydrogen In 2022, we made significant progress toward our green hydrogen generation targets and projected capacity, with the announcement of new developments and product innovation, such as integration of the Frames Group team bolstering our engineering capabilities, and our partnership with McDermott on a 1GW green hydrogen plant concept, and a JV with Olin Corporation for a 15 TPD plant in Louisiana, with the opportunity for further expansion. Through our suite of hydrogen generation, transportation and fuel cell power for a growing number of applications, we provide a comprehensive end-to-end green hydrogen energy solution. Our vertical integration strategy positions Plug as the global leader in generation, liquefaction, distribution and dispensing of hydrogen. Joint ventures, and acquisitions have shaped our vertical integration strategy by enabling us to offer end-to.end hydrogen solutions. Our capacity to produce hydrogen is on pace to reach our targets of 500 TPD by 2025 in North America and 1,000 TPD globally by 2028. We also aspire to make green hydrogen easy, economical, and ubiquitous to accelerate the transition from fossil fuels. While our first generation of green hydrogen plants will produce at an average cost of ~$4 per kilogram, we project that due to the advancements of our electrolyzer technology and build-out of our hydrogen network across North America, that cost will trend down significantly over the course of the decade. This includes lowering per MW capital costs for electrolyzers by over 50% , using 70% less precious metals, scaling plants to 1GW or more to lower per-kg capital costs, and integration of mega projects and hubs with midstream to lower transport costs. Our cost reduction road map for green hydrogen generation will not only allow the world to significantly reduce its carbon footprint by replacing fossil fuels, but it will allow for energy independence from countries who are dependent on foreign-supplied fossil fuels. Plug is working very closely with our partners globally to accelerate our efforts in this energy transition in the face of the tragic events we have seen unfold in Ukraine. We continue to be a leader in sustainable innovation, with planned green hydrogen plants across North America utilizing various renewable sources. This includes hydro in New York, wind in Texas, and solar in California. We continue to partner with local towns, which includes building tertiary water treatment plants to produce recycled water in California and Texas to feed our plants while ensuring a secure water supply for our surrounding communities. Plug will also look to use high efficiency reverse-osmosis systems that can concentrate impurities in water which should result in much lower volumes of rejected water (5% vs 25% of incoming volume). In these ways, Plug will ensure that the water requirements for our green hydrogen network does not compete with existing water users, especially agriculture. Throughout recent years, acquisitions have enabled us to grow from a fuel cell company to a green hydrogen provider that addresses the progression of operations. In 2020, we acquired United Hydrogen, one of the largest privately held producers of hydrogen at the time, and Giner ELX, a global electrolyzer developer with more than four decades of experience. These acquisitions are leading contributors to our increased capacity projections and will enable us to significantly scale up our production of green hydrogen. In 2021, we acquired Frames Group, which adds engineering, process, and systems integration expertise to Plug. Finally, our acquisitions of Applied Cryo Technologies in 2021 and Joule Processing in 2022 adds significant capabilities, expertise, and technologies, including efficient liquefaction, liquid hydrogen delivery network and fleet, liquid hydrogen storage, and hydrogen mobility fueling, which will enable the company to expand its green hydrogen ecosystem and lower the cost of hydrogen infrastructure and logistics networks. In 2022, wecommissionedourfirst green hydrogen plant in Georgia using our Plug electrolyzer. The process of commissioning Georgia and continued progress in New York and Texas has given us valuable learnings on the electric infrastructure and balance of plant needs, while engineering cooperation between our new teammates from recent acquisitions has yielded continuous improvements to plant design and capital costs as we move forward in our capacity buildout. Our green hydrogen production is projected to scale to 200 TPD commissioned across North America by the end of 2023. We continued to have constructive dialogue with both the public and private sectors. The Inflation Reduction Act, RePowerEU and other initiatives to both decarbonize and promote domestic energy production has grown our electrolyzer sales funnel dramatically, especially for green ammonia / fertilizer production, while offering robust economic benefits to end-users looking to decarbonize by shifting to zero-carbon green hydrogen fuel and fuel cell applications. We continue to make significant progress in Europe. Our Port of Antwerp plant will produce up to 35 TPD of liquid and gaseous green hydrogen by 2025. The Port of Antwerp is Europe’s second-largest industrial port with plans to become a major hydrogen hub. We already have inbound interest for more than six times the capacity of the plant before having broken ground, highlighting the demand in the European market for green hydrogen and fuel cell applications to decarbonize transportation and heavy industries. Our JV with Acciona is evaluating sites across Spain and Portugal to begin construction of green hydrogen plants. These initiatives will increase availability of hydrogen to support the expansion of our fuel cell products and Hyvia vehicles in the EU. Hyvia, our joint venture with Renault, is making tremendous strides in the development of hydrogen fuel cell passenger vans and commercial vehicles. This includes successful pilot programs with more than 15 companies in Europe, and plans for 800 vehicles on the road in the EU in 2023. Although hydrogen is a low-carbon energy source, transportation of hydrogen through use of conventional internal combustion engine trucks contributes to our greenhouse gas emissions and we are taking steps to reduce and, eventually, eliminate these sources of emissions. This initiative is an important step forward in making our value chain cleaner by addressing the transportation of hydrogen tanks from suppliers to our facilities. Plug’s clean energy products deliver a significant value proposition to our customers and the environment, including zero-emission power, robust reliability, improved efficiency, scalability, and lower operational costs. The only byproducts of hydrogen fuel cells are heat and water. They do not produce harmful emissions, which eliminates the costs associated with handling strong toxic materials like battery acid or diesel fuel. Our technology has proven it can withstand tough conditions including freezing temperatures as low as -40 degrees Celsius, and extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, deserts, and winter storms. HFCs are also 40-60% energy efficient, according to the U.S. Department of Energy1, compared to 20% in a typical internal combustion engine car. Our modular products allow for greater reliability and easier serviceability which enables them to operate at scale. Fuel cells save money compared to batteries and internal combustion generators. Faster fueling along with fewer maintenance and site visits lead to reduced downtime, which can result in 84% lower operational costs compared to combustion generators for stationary power. This provides a critical benefit of fuel cell longevity, which is especially beneficial for industries such as trucking. 