Environment Businesses, investors, governments and individuals care about their carbon footprint and its impact on the environment, driving a shift toward electrification and clean energy sources. Our commitment to the environment is reflected not only through the impacts of our products in operation but also through the impacts of our manufacturing processes and our product’s end-to-end life cycle. We are committed to resource efficiency, responsible design, materials management, and recycling. Our mission is to consistently increase our supply chain responsibility and manage our products at the end of their lifecycles so that we can operate in ways that create long-term environmental value. Product Stewardship and Circularity We are proud of our efforts to be good environmental stewards with respect to our products. Our products are 100% recyclable and/or reusable. Still, we know there is always room for improvement, particularly when it comes to protecting the world we live in.We are currently workingto better understand the environmental impacts of our products’ manufacturing processes and life cycles. As part of this initiative, we began a project to quantify our carbon footprint for each of our products. We successfully completed quantifying We also monitor products reaching the end of their life cycle. When they can no longer be used for their intended purpose, we employ four end-of-life treatment options: • Rental program: During high-demand times, we will rent products from vendors when their life cycle ends and we will return them to the vendor.• Component reclamation: We reclaim used fuel cell components.• Internal use: Once a product has been used, we will deconstruct it and reuse any pieces we can leverage in our day-to-day operations.• Refurbish and recycle: We recycle or resell the products once deconstructed.Since October 2020, we have worked with Elemet, a company that resells recycled and reused materials to the Carbon Intensity Life cycle Assessment for our material handling fuel cells, and established a critical baseline that allows us to improve our future products. Assessing carbon intensity of our products across the life cycle is a critical part of our product development to track improvements and measure against our baseline.We plan to continue this important work in 2022 by quantifying the carbon footprint of additional products. continue to be used in the economy. After conducting a successful pilot program in 2020, Plug has contracted with Elemet and intends to increase the scale of the recycling partnership, the scope of which includes the primary components of GenDrive fuel cell energy devices, including:• Steel ballast, frame, and housing• Empty high-pressure hydrogen vessel/tank free of hydrogen and nitrogen• Battery pack• Fuel cell assembly• Pumps, filters, hoses, secondary liquid vessels, and fueling fittings• Logic and control assemblies• Cooling system• Wiring, sensors, capacitors, relays, and fuses These materials are sold as scrap once the components have been converted into a clean scrap material following the Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries (ISRI) guidelines after manual deconstruction, mechanical size reduction such as shredding,milling, granulation, and commodity segregation or accumulation through magnetic, air, vibratory, screening, or manual separation. Plug also works with several partners such as Glines & Rhodes and MetalX to able to recycle and reclaim the precious metals that are in our fuel cell and electrolyzer stacks once their life cycle in the field is complete.Minimizing Our Environmental Impacts As well as providing zero-emission fuel cells to our customers, Plug also utilizes these same fuel cells in our own facilities, where applicable. Our forklifts and pallet jacks are powered by Plug fuel cells and use Plug hydrogen dispensing technology, cutting down on energy use and emissions and enhancing the effectiveness of the equipment. Hazardous Waste Management The only hazardous waste we produce are lithium ion and coolant. Lithium ion is sold to a third-party vendor. Because of the hazardous nature of these materials, we utilize responsible vendors who transport this waste safely to ensure nothing is damaged and there are no injuries. Hydrogen is the output product of electrolyzers, and it will typically be used to power hydrogen fuel cells. Excess hydrogen is vented into the atmosphere after being mixed with nitrogen and neutralized, so it is not flammable nor explosive. Renewable Energy Use In 2021, Plug made tremendous strides in adopting renewable energy use in our operations. As a result of three power purchase agreements (PPA), we will be well positioned to utilize renewable energy at three of our hydrogen production sites as soon as 2022:345 MW wind PPA with Apex Clean Energy in Texas The power purchased through the PPA with Apex will directly supply a new hydrogen production plant with 100% renewable power. The hydrogen plant, which is being co-developed by Apex and Plug, will be the first and largest wind-supplied hydrogen project in the United Statesand the largest onshore wind-powered project across the globe. Once operational, the plant is anticipated to produce over 30 metric tons per day of clean liquid hydrogen, enough to fuel the equivalent of over 2,000 light commercial vehicles or over 1,000 heavy duty class 8 trucks. The partnership, which follows the September 2020 announcement of our collaboration agreement with Apex will help realize the potential of green hydrogen in North America to advance the decarbonization of the transportation and industrial sectors.Niagara Power Authority that will harness hydro power from Niagara Falls The $290 million electricity substation and state-of.the-art green hydrogen fuel production facility at the Western New York Science, Technology and Advanced Manufacturing Park located in the Town of Alabama, Genesee County will produce 45 metric tons of green liquid hydrogen daily servicing the Northeast region. When completed, the facilitywill offer our transportation fuel customers pricing competitive to diesel, leading the way to decarbonizing freight-transportation and logistics supporting New York’s path to achieving carbon-neutrality by 2050.120 MW zero-carbon solar power PPA in Fresno County with Candela Using a new 300 megawatt zero-carbon solar farm in Fresno County, we will power our PEM electrolyzers to produce 30 metric tons of liquid green hydrogen per day purchased through the 120 MW PPA. This project also includes the construction of a new tertiary wastewater treatment plant in the Mendota, CA to provide recycled water in the city and fully supply the water needs of our electrolyzer plant at capacity. This project aims to support the state of California’s 2045 carbon neutrality target and their transition away from petroleum-based industries. Renewable electricity with Okefenokee Rural Electric Membership Corporation The plant is already producing gaseous green hydrogen for customers. When fully operational, the plant will produce 15 tons per day of liquid green hydrogen, produced using 100% renewable energy and intended to fuel transportation applications, including material handling and fuel cell electric vehicle fleets. Plug is investing $84 million in the facility, which is expected to create at least 24 jobs in the local community starting in 2022.In addition, our first seven electrolyzer stacks were sent to Germany for use in our Duisburg facility, where they will displace diesel power. This operation produces 500 kg of hydrogen per 1 MW per day which can displace an estimated 1,000 gallons of diesel per day. The electrolyzer stack displaces an estimated 16,000 tons of CO2 emissions per year by generating clean hydrogen using energy from wind turbines. Building on this momentum in our electrolyzer development, we are projecting to produce 100 MW of electrolyzer stacks in Concord, MA and 800 MW in Rochester, NY in 2022. Use of Green Building Technology As we continue to expand, maintaining biodiversity and employing green building technologies in new facilities and plants is a top priority. Plug places importance on selecting new facility locations that minimize our footprint and allow our employees to appreciate our natural surroundings. Areas of focus for our new spaces include using regenerative load banks which help eliminate coolant loops and reduce energy use. We are also focused on minimizing the disturbance of wetlands, and the addition of recreational areas such as mountain bike trails to optimize the outdoor space. Plug is also exploring opportunities to obtain LEED Operations and Cybersecurity We are focused on managing cybersecurity risks as our business continues to grow. This requires constant monitoring and protection from potential cyber threats. Our cyber security strategy includes preventative measures, proactive monitoring, and alerting; employee education; and business continuity planning.The Director of IT is responsible for leading the company’s cyber security program and Plug’s Board of Directors is updated at least twice annually on the company’s cybersecurity efforts. We have established our cybersecurity program in alignment with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework.We utilize tools and technologies such as virtual private networks (VPN), multi-factor authentication (MFA), and complex passwords and further subscribe to the principle of least privilege in support of our Identity and As we continue to develop and expand the electrolyzer stacks both here in the US and on an international stage, we seek to minimize our global environmental footprint. We believe these technologies will propel the green hydrogen economy, minimizing the need to use diesel and emit fewer CO2 emissions into the air. Maintenance (O+M) Certifications for existing buildings as well as opportunities to obtain LEED certifications for new buildings in the future.Plug is committed to a sustainable energy supply and recognize the role we must play in advancing toward a clean energy future. We will continue to develop our products and processes to minimize both our own and our customer’s environmental impact to progress toward the green hydrogen economy we envision around the world. Access Management strategy. Additionally, we monitor our IT environment through our Network Operations Center, conduct purposeful network health and instance verification tests (IVT), administer a strict and continuous patching regimen, and leverage best-in-class tools to prevent and/or detect potential vulnerabilities. Further, to ensure we are proactivelyaddressing emerging risks, we contract a leading third-party cybersecurity firm to periodically assess our IT environment and cybersecurity posture.Plug’s exempt and nonexempt employees are required to perform annual security awareness training which covers topics such as access management, phishing and other areas that affect day-to-day security. New employees also receive training to educate them on their role in protecting Plug’s systems and data.Business continuity and disaster recovery plans have been developed and are tested on a routine basis.