About Us Plug has differentiated itself as a global leader in turnkey green hydrogen solutions across the value chain, allowing our customers to adopt carbon-free hydrogen solutions while enhancing operational efficiency. Plug’s success began by building the first commercially viable markets for hydrogen fuel cells (HFC) for material handling. This business has creat.ed a wealth of operating knowledge with data from more than  1 billion hours of operating time for our HFC’s in the field, and the largest network (200) of hydrogen refueling stations in North America. We are innovating at a rapid pace through in-house development, acquisitions, and joint partnerships to allow penetration of a variety of markets and applications. Plug’s electrolyzer solutions team has nearly 50 years of experience, and our Rochester gigafactory will be the first-of-its kind to bring PEM electrolyzer production to the gigawatt+ scale. With these electrolyzers and Plug’s Cryogenic Solutions, including liquifiers with industry-leading efficiency, Plug will produce green hydrogen to help North American customers decarbonize their operations and meet their operational objectives. We are a people-first company, building for the future on the talent, dedication, and determination of our employees. Headquartered in Latham, N.Y., our innovative products are developed and supported by a global footprint and workforce with research laboratories, service and training centers, manufacturing facilities, and liquid hydrogen plants across North America and Europe. In 2022, we expanded our green hydrogen generation footprint to include locations in Georgia, California, New York, Texas, Louisiana, and Europe, with at least five plants expected to be commissioned by the end of 2023. (Map Below) As of the first quarter of 2023, Plug employs 3,750 people with 3,547 being full time exempt employees, and 203 being temporary employees. Our company’s capacity to produce green hydrogen is on pace to expand to 500 tons per day (TPD) of production in North America by 2025 and 1,000 TPD on a global basis by 2028. Our future projects will decrease the cost of green hydrogen significantly, making adoption of hydrogen and HFCs to be easy and economical. Through the development of these breakthrough technologies, we maintain a large portfolio of intellectual property with 102 live and 7 pending patents in the U.S. (as of April 21, 2023). About This Report Plug’s mission is to make the adoption of hydrogen easy so businesses can decarbonize and displace fossil fuels. This mission is complemented by our goals laid out in this report as we continue to evaluate a variety of topics regarding our business’s impact on society and the environment. Plug recognizes the urgent need to transition to a green economy and reduce our reliance on fossil fuels, and the development and implementation of hydrogen fuel cells as a cleaner alternative to traditional fossil fuels continues to contribute to this effort. Several reporting frameworks and standards have been developed with the purpose of enhancing transparency and consistency, and communicating sustainability as it relates to these non-financial disclosures. As we plan new facilities and our global growth plans, the frameworks set forth in this report are guiding us to be conscious of our environmental and societal impacts as we  build facilities and teams that have ESG goals ingrained in their design. We recognize that the market is moving toward more standardized reporting and that our stakeholders are seeking improved comparability and consistency in reporting across countries and industries. In a rapidly evolving ESG landscape, we are dedicated to establishing a systematic and integrated approach to address risks, drive value, and build organizational resilience. This report covers Plug’s ESG-related efforts for the 2022 calendar year. We report in alignment with the standards for the Fuel Cells and Industrial Batteries industry, Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. Our Approach Our commitment to sustainability goes hand in handwith our company’s mission to displace diesel andother fossil fuels with the accelerated use of green hydrogen as we transition to a  global net-zero econ.omy. This mission is deeply rooted in our products, mission, core values, and people, and Plug will re.main focused on leading the green hydrogen indus.try to minimize the impact of climate change across the globe. While leading this energy transition, Plug recognizes the need to create a circular business model that utilizes ourEarth’snatural resources effi.ciently. Our research and development (R&D) teams continue to work to lower precious metal loading in our products and have created partnerships to allow more than 90% of precious metals to be recycled and used in new products. Our end-to-end hydrogen solutions enable our customers to transition to a decarbonized econo.my while maximizing value for our stakeholders.We know this will only be possible by continuing to prioritize our people and their desire to help fulfill this mission. We hire the most ambitious minds to innovate products and make them more accessible to businesses of all sizes around the globe. Gov.ernments around the globe are laser-focused on decarbonization to make a net-zero world a reality, and Plug’s sustainable solutions in industries such as transportation (aviation and logistics), energy, pow.er, industrial processes, material handling, and data centers have and will play a major role. By disrupting the fossil fuel industry with hydrogen fuel cells, we are contributing to a more sustainable and resilient energy system. We believe that this transition to a green economy is not only necessary to address the urgent threat of climate change, but also presents significant economic opportunities for our companyand the wider industry.Our ESG efforts at Plug are led by our Director of In.vestor Relations with the support of multiple teamsacross the company who contribute the necessary information for this report. Our board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee provides oversight for the company’s ESG program and over.sees our climate risks and opportunities.. Our goal for 2022 was to continue to develop our ESG gover.nance structure to enhance transparency, consisten.cy, and standardization across the business. In 2022, we conducted a materiality assessment withthe assistance of PricewaterhouseCoopers, a Big 4 accounting firm, to gain an understanding of which ESG topics were most relevant for us and our stake.holders. To gather this data, we engaged priority stakeholder groups to gain an understanding of the topics that are of greatest importance for Plug, which uncovered the following topics for focus:Managing our environmental impacts:• Energy management • Development of low/no carbon solutions • Product end of life management • Product efficiency Social: • Employee health and safety • Diversity & inclusion• Community investment Governance: • Supply chain management• Board and executive compensation management 2022 ESG Achievements / Advancements • Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions: Plug developed a GHG Inventory in line with GHG Protocol and set a baseline for 2022 emissions. While we are growing rapidly, a better understanding of our energy consumption and sources of emissions will better inform us of our impact on the en.vironment and aid us in making strategic deci.sions in our transition to a low-carbon economy. • Scope 2 emissions include all purchased elec.tricity, and our GHG Inventory allows us to mea.sure our electricity usage data so we can better manage it.• In addition to developing a GHG Inventory, Plug has also started collecting water usage data.As a key input in the electrolyzer process, it is paramount that Plug understands its water con.sumption and its effects on local communities. While hydrogen is a clean and versatile fuel that will be important in the transition to a greener economy, it’s important to note that water is con.sumed in the production of hydrogen through electrolysis. We continue to mature our data collection and re.porting processes, and we are learning through.out our journey. As our third year of ESG reporting concludes, we endeavor to continuously improve to meet and exceed the expectations of our stakehold.ers, and the public at-large, for transparent disclo.sure. Over the course of the next year, we expect to implement additional technology solutions and ex.pand internal programs and resources that will ad.vance our ESG efforts. We look forward to providing an update on those efforts in our next report. 