Education & Training Education and Training Education and training are key to the skills development of our employees. We remain committed to delivering practical, accurate, and job-specific education. In January of 2021, we implemented the Workday Learning system and we continue to leverage this tool to deliver a variety of training to our employees. In 2022, we were able to provide in-person training for all of our manufacturing leaders. Leaders were invited to visit our Latham headquarters, and spent time on a variety of topics such as HR compliance, Plug Values, Change Management and more. All frontline leaders were then enrolled in a three-course live virtual program to continue their learning. We expanded our leader development offerings to include live, online cohort-based learning to reach our employees globally. We focused on learning as a continuous journey and putting learning into action by encouraging participants to make commitments after each course. To date, we have had more than 100 front-line and mid-level leaders complete four-course programs focusing on topics such as change, feedback, coaching, and high trust relationships. Participants are encouraged to continue their learning journey by taking elective courses of their choosing. Additionally, participants have an opportunity to focus on ongoing development by completing a manager assessment that provides feedback from direct reports and further fosters their development journey. All employees have the opportunity to leverage LinkedIn Learning for professional skill development. Many employees used LinkedIn Learning from a micro learning perspective – short, bite-sized learning for topics relevant to an immediate or long.term opportunity area. In 2022, Plug employees had more than 55,000 video completions.  We expanded our apprenticeship program at our Rochester Gigafactory to provide career and development pathways for our manufacturing employees. We plan to regularly grow the number of apprentices at our Rochester location, as well as in Field Service, Energy Solutions, and other areas of the business. In 2022, Plug attracted 48 students from universities across the USA to support various projects at multiple Plug locations. 92% of our interns rated their overall experience 4+ out of 5. 100% of interns indicated they would work for Plug again, and 100% would recommend Plug to their peers. Current Internship and Co-Op Programs Include Summer Internship Program: This is a 10- to 12-week intensive experience held over the summer months, and is open to both undergraduate and graduate students. Students are provided an opportunity to get a “sneak peek” at potential future Plug employment and help support the various projects, research efforts and needs of the business units. Co-Ops Co-Op students are fundamentally different from interns. While aninternship is essentially a paid job that a student completes in the summer or winter break, a Co-Op is a key component of a student’s educational program. These are experiences that their university deems mandatory and requires them to complete for anywhere from 4 to 12 months. Senior Student Projects Senior Student Projects expose students to a real-world industry problem over the course of a semester or two, and the research is conducted on the College/University campus. Plug values and encourages continued education amongst its employees. We offer a tuition reimbursement program, where employees are provided financial support to continue their education. Our internal Step Pay program provides field service technicians – currently 421 – an outlined career path of training and eight separate levels to grow their skills and compensation simultaneously. Supporting Our Communities Plug recognizes the importance of supporting our local communities as we continue to grow. We encourage our employees to give back in a way that aligns with their individual values by offering recurring and new philanthropy initiatives. We are immensely proud of our significant partnership with the United Way, which aims to advance the common good in communities across the world. This partnership facilitates direct employee donations and contributes to United Way’s four pillars of supporting communities: • Ability to meet basic needs • Education leading to a good job • Income providing financial security • Ability to gain and maintain health We are excited to report that $70,793.16 was donated by Plug employees in the 2022 program year with a total of 112 pledges. We are a company that values our close relationship with the local communities where we operate. At a smaller scale, yet meaningful initiative, is our annual donation of turkeys for the Thanksgiving holiday. In 2022, we provided 540 turkeys to Latham employees, 250 turkeys to Rochester employees, 260 turkeys to the Latham food bank, 40 turkeys to the Albany area Rotterdam Elks’ food basket distribution event, 12 turkeys donated to the East Rochester Community Resource Center Inc., 10 turkeys to the Adlai E. Stevenson School 29, and 10 turkeys to the AMDA School 12 (Rochester City schools). We appreciate the opportunity to come together and give back to our local community in Latham and Rochester. This year, we initiated a Community Relations Program to evaluate deserving nonprofit organizations to boost our corporate giving program. We have created a process to assess how Plug can invest in our communities through sponsorship, donation, and volunteerism that support education, our environment, and innovation and align with our values of collaboration, communication, respect, truth, and humility with gusto. Each Plug employee is provided 16 hours per year paid time off to volunteer. Also, the COVID-19 program continues to track and trace exposures and illnesses to help minimize the spread of illness and the negative impact the virus has on our business. Location  Volunteering  Donations  Concord, MA  Four people donated blood in November 2022 at the American Red Cross blood drive.  About a dozen bags of non-perishable food were donated to the Open Table at Thanksgiving 30 people received gifts from the Giving Tree for Christmas $2,500 donated to the West Concord Cultural District, which - - is intended to heighten public awareness of the unique cultural features and resources   Rochester, NY  Factory tour – 33 people from the Victor Robotics Team and 16 people from the Honeoye Falls Robotics team toured the Innovation Center and Gigafactory Plug’s engineering team provided feedback to the student presentations 23 employees volunteered at Camp Good Days in May 2022 and seven employees volunteered in November 2022  Six employees donated blood at the John Street Business Challenge through American Red Cross in July 2022 13 employees participated in the Scramble Golf Tournament (Donation to Willie Bee Foundation) in October 2022 30 gifts (three families) were donated to the Willow Center in December 2022 Foodlink Food Drive (401 lbs. of canned and dried food and 10 turkeys donated) in November 2022  Latham, NY  $10,000 donated to the United Way Summer Meals Program  Spokane, WA  Donated clothing to Spokane Valley Partners https://www.svpart.org/ in December  2022 Donated 55 gallon barrels of food to the Spokane Valley Partners in December 2022  Appendix Appendix Governance Policies-Business Ethics & Compliance Conflict Minerals Policy Plug starts by identifying relevant suppliers and collects and reviews information from them on a company-by-company basis. This task is performed by the Supply Chain Team. Plug reports on its compliance with the Conflict Minerals Rule on an annual basis. In accordance with the Conflict Minerals Policy, Plug’s Supply Chain Team engages in a country of origin inquiry regarding the use of conflict minerals from our direct suppliers identified in the due diligence process, as well as an inquiry into whether necessary conflict minerals came from recycled or scrap sources. Each of the identified suppliers must solicit that information from their next tier of suppliers. Plug Power will seek information from its suppliers throughout its global supply chains, regardless of where the components and materials are purchased. We work with our suppliers to ensure consistency in the tools used to establish this process. As a result of these efforts, Plug requires our suppliers to undertake the following actions: • Report the required company-level data and the smelter data, for all uses of the designated minerals and derivatives in the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT, produced by the CFSI*) tool for any materials, components or products supplied to Plug Power after January 1, 2019 by returning a completed CMRT, including all smelter information for all of the designated minerals. Document all steps taken to collect and report conflict mineral information and preserve the documentation. • Maintain compliance annually. Audit and Ongoing Due Diligence Process: Materials collected from suppliers are reviewed in an audit related to ongoing due diligence. The framework for this audit can be found in the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. We implement action plans to provide further information and guidance as needed to address concerns revealed as the result of an audit. Information on the OECD can be found at: https://www.oecd.org/daf/inv/mne/OECD-Due.Diligence-Guidance-Minerals-Edition3.pdf Fair Treatment Policy Plug’s Fair Treatment Policy reflects our company’s HR and human rights commitments. The policy highlights our social responsibility expectations from business partners. Business partners include suppliers and suppliers’ manufacturing facilities, including all subcontracting, packaging, and distribution facilities. The Fair Treatment Policy applies to all individuals working with and/or performing services for Plug, including our employees, directors, contractors, and consultants. The policy includes a link for anonymous reports and a hotline to report harassment violations to the appropriate supervisor, senior manager, or HR team member. Plug’s Fair Treatment Policy ensures ethical behavior and respect for our stakeholders’ human rights, including the prohibition of discrimination, child labor, human trafficking, and slavery practice throughout our business and supply chain partnerships. We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which informs our efforts. International Human Rights Policy Plug recognizes the importance of human rights and our responsibility to implement and maintain sustainable business practices. Therefore, Plug’s policy defines our commitment to understand, manage, and encourage responsible, honest, and ethical behavior throughout our operations. Additionally, the policy outlines our intent to embrace and comply with several recognized international human rights standards, including those outlined by the International Bill of Human Rights (including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights) and the Fundamental International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, among others, and defines a minimum standard across all of our operations. However, where applicable law or regulations require a higher standard or are inconsistent with this policy, the applicable law or regulations will govern. All employees and third-party business partners through whom we conduct business are required to cooperate fully, accurately, and promptly. See the Responsible Supply Chain section of this report for further details on how our International Human Rights Policy relates to our Supplier Code of Conduct. Furthermore, among other things, the policy makes it clear that Plug is committed to respecting the rights of children and the elimination of child labor. Plug ensures that all employment is voluntary and will not engage in, support, or condone any form of forced, bonded, or compulsory labor. Plug recognizes the importance of an open dialogue between leadership and employees and their representatives (including trade and labor unions and employee forums). Plug respects the cultures, customs, values, and laws of the communities in which we operate; Plug commits to compliance with applicable law in every country and jurisdiction in which we operate. Plug considers human rights when making decisions on our locations of operations; Plug integrates human rights criteria into the screening of contracts with third parties; and Plug forbids retaliation which includes any conduct, whether or not workplace or employment-related, directed at someone because they opposed a practice in violation of this policy, made or encouraged another individual to make a good faith report, or participated in an investigation of such, which might deter a reasonable individual from making or supporting a report of a violation of this policy. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Our policies for employees and business partners strictly prohibit all forms of bribery and corruption, whether commercial or governmental. For employees, these policies are incorporated into the Employee Handbook and each must read and reaffirm compliance with them, annually. Further, our mandated trainings include modules on vigilance with regards to eliminating bribery and corruption. Responsible Tax As Plug grows, we remain vigilant in our compliance with respect to the complex taxation rules and practices. Plug files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to examination by taxing Considering Plug’s international expansion, the Board has requested a more directive and formal training program which we are currently working to develop. For business partners, these policies are included below in the Responsible Supply Chain section of this report and are incorporated in our criteria used by the EcoVadis software. authorities. We endeavor to treat our taxation obligations responsibly and in a transparent manner. We utilize outside expertise for the development of our tax strategies and to assist us in remaining current on tax law and analyzing our tax risk. Responsible Supply Chain We are committed to conducting business ethically and in compliance with the law. We expect our business partners, contractors, vendors, suppliers, and any entity we do business with to obey and comply with laws and regulations and any agreed upon contract. Accordingly, Plug requests our suppliers adhere to this Supplier Code of Code which provides guidance for doing business with Plug. If any of our suppliers are flagged for their mistreatment in one of these areas, we will work to remedy the situation so that our entire end-to-end supply chain operations are true to our commitment to build the green hydrogen economy in a responsible way. We continually work to improve our operations and expect our business partners to promote ethical and law-abiding principles throughout their supply chain as outlined below. • Freely Chosen Employment: Suppliers shall not use force, bonded or indentured labor. Suppliers shall not support, promote, or engage in the practice of slavery or human trafficking. • Child Labor and Young Workers: Suppliers shall not illegally use child labor. The employment of workers below the age of majority as defined and where permitted by applicable local law shall only occur as per the parameters established under such applicable laws and in non-hazardous work conditions. • Freedom of Association: Suppliers shall respect the rights of workers, as set forth in local laws, to associate freely, join or not join labor unions or workers’ councils and to seek representation. • Wages, Benefits and Working Hours: Suppliers shall pay workers according to applicable wage laws. Work hours shall be in compliance with applicable laws. • Anti-Corruption and Business Integrity: All forms of corruption are prohibited. Suppliers shall not offer, pay, promise, or accept bribes or participate in other illegal inducements in business or government relationships. • Conflicts of Interest: Suppliers shall not engage in any activity with an employee of Plug which could create a conflict of interest. • Environmental Health and Safety (EHS): Suppliers shall comply with all applicable EHS laws and regulations. • Disaster Recovery: Suppliers shall have a disaster recovery plan for emergencies and ensure that their facilities meet appropriate safety standards. • Legal Requirements: Suppliers shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations. • Compliance Assessment: Suppliers are expected to monitor compliance with this Supplier Code Plug reserves the right to assess suppliers. Compliance with this Supplier Code through use of Plug personnel or third parties. Climate Risk Assessment Results TCFD Risk Plug Risk Impact Mitigation Strategies Time Horizon Transition Risk: Policy and Legal  Increased pricing of  The implementation of a  Green hydrogen requires  We calculated our 2022 GHG scope 1 and 2  Medium  GHG emissions  carbon tax in jurisdictions in which Plug operates  large quantities of electricity, and to obtain the required electricity, Plug plans to make investments in renewable energy PPAs to produce clean low-cost electricity. However, we also use on-grid energy companies to obtain the necessary levels of electricity, where an implementation of a carbon tax could hurt Plug’s annual income if the RECs from the PPAs are not considered.  emissions for reporting, investor relations, and future emission targets. The future emission targets include the development of technology and processes that will ensure green hydrogen is generated using little to no GHG emissions, through renewable energy infrastructure, net-zero production plants, and safe means of distribution of green hydrogen.  A Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism, if implemented, is projected to take the form of an additional cost on all imports from countries with a reduced or no carbon price, and a credit for exports to keep products competitive in the growing global market. We are reliant on imports of precious metals for electrolyzers, so a potential carbon tax based on imports may create a risk of revenue loss.  We are working on implementing new recycling technology that would allow utilization of old fuel cell iridium in the production of new electrolyzers and other fuel cells. This new recycling technology will allow us to decrease reliance on importing new precious metals, which also decreases the impact of carbon tax on supply chain imports. In addition, we have been focusing on diversifying supply chain reliance through regionalizing supply channels (eliminating the reliance on single sources), which may allow us to move away from countries that could result in a high carbon tax (e.g., importing from China).  Medium  Enhanced emissions- Increased emission  Increased emission reporting  We have calculated our GHG emissions  Medium  reporting obligations  reporting policy that focuses on company’s GHG emissions  requirements may require companies to disclose GHG emissions in a more efficient manner and may require that calculations be audited. Given the complexity of calculating Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and the fact the company plans to increase its production of hydrogen requiring additional sources of electricity, PPAs and/or offsets, reporting may take more time. These potential mandates may require dedicated employees to calculate emissions efficiently on an annual basis or require external consultants to be hired, both of which would increase operational costs.  for 2021 and 2022, providing a calculation foundation to use going forward. Additionally, we are evaluating technology enhancements which will allow us to reduce reliance on manual processes in emissions calculations.  Mandates on and  Changing regulations  The recently passed Inflation  We actively advocate for and help draft  Medium  regulation of existing  on hydrogen fuel  Reduction Act will provide $3/  legislation in favor of green hydrogen  products and services  production and transportation processes could delay the scaling of green hydrogen production  kilogram of green hydrogen, which may support up to 75% of capital improvement projects. However, if we are unable to qualify for these credits/incentives due to the lifecycle of the carbon intensity of products, the ability to scale operations to a level necessary to support needed energy demand would be greatly impacted. This would impact the amount of green hydrogen we are able to produce and ultimately impact revenue.  legislation. This helps to progress the potential for a green hydrogen tax credit and avoid delays in scale of production.  Exposure to litigation  Increased exposure to litigation as it relates to sustainability claims or other climate-related activities and initiatives  Climate-related litigation cases are increasing all over the world against fossil fuel, natural gas, and coal powered companies. The highly explosive nature of hydrogen, and the negative impact on the atmosphere if leakage occurs, creates negative stigmatizations of hydrogen with different environmental groups. Litigation may cause reputational damage and lead to a loss of revenue.  Our legal team is proactive regarding climate risk disclosures by observing peer responses to climate risk factors and seeking outside legal counsel for consulting on which climate risks are most significant to address. Utilizing outside consulting and staying consistent with industry peers, we have been able to remain transparent in disclosures, minimize the chance for litigation, and focus on regulatory proceedings and policy discussions.  Medium  TCFD Risk Plug Risk Impact Mitigation Strategies Time Horizon Unsuccessful invest.ment in new technol.ogies Costs to transition to lower emissions tech.nology New or existing technol.ogy that fails to perform creates set-back on de.velopment road map Large capital investment will be needed to transi.tion distribution fleet to hydrogen trucks To increase the ability to produce and use less rare minerals and raw materials, innovation is key. Should a large investment be made in a new technology that is unsuccessful in performing its intended use, we may suffer op.erational and investment losses. The technology to produce the number of hydrogen-powered delivery trucks needed for our business is not currently avail.able. However, when available, a large capital investment may be required to procure the number of trucks needed, which may increase our expenses. Diesel trucks delivering green hydrogen add to the carbon intensity asso.ciated with the lifecycle of our products, which may impact our ability to call the product green hydrogen. Therefore, there is also a reputation risk associated if the hydrogen distribution truck technology is not viable for mass production. We have established a 5-year development road map, with technology being the main focus. Every 6 months, our development and technology teams review the road map and any failed technology, making adapta.tions to the technology as needed. Most of our investments go to scaling up our hydrogen production and R&D, both of which focus on increasing the potential to earn revenue, mitigating risk against poten.tial setbacks in other areas. Short Medium TCFD Risk Plug Risk Impact Mitigation Strategies Time Horizon Transition Risk: Market  Uncertainty in market signals  Market is still heavily in.fluenced by government demand for fossil fuels, leading to little incen.tives for green hydrogen  The widespread transition from traditional fossil fuels or lithium batteries to green hy.drogen is heavily influenced by governmental policy or incentives. If the recently passed Inflation Reduction Act credits/incentives were to be overturned by a newly elect.ed government or not adopt.ed as anticipated, this would inhibit our ability to expand operations as the scaling of hydrogen-powered vehicles may be more costly without government influence.  Our dedicated policy team continuously monitors legislative bills and is actively in.volved in working with governmental agen.cies in designing regulations and incentives around the green hydrogen industry.  Long  Increased cost of raw materials  Increase in price and decrease of availability of raw material leading to increased production challenges  We are highly dependent on raw materials which go into production of hydrogen. Irid.ium, for example, is a rare metal, and with increasing demand for green hydrogen, prices are forecasted to rise exponentially (since the start of 2021 the price of iridium has increased by 140%). As different countries control the mining regulations and export quantities, there could become a shortage of iridium, which may delay operations or increase operating costs.  We purchase many raw materials in advance and store it at local sites to ensure sufficient hydrogen supply. We have enough storage capacity to hedge price volatility using this strategy. Additionally, we have moved to regional diversity and various mining firms to also address potential iridium shortages.  Medium  Increase cost of renew.able energy implemen.tation  As more companies set net zero targets, there will be in.creased demand for Renew.able Power Purchase agree.ments (PPAs) and/or Virtual Power Purchase agreements (vPPAs) which include Renew.able Energy Credits (RECs) to offset emissions. This in.creased demand is likely to increase the price of RECs as well as PPAs. If we are not able to secure RECs in a timely fashion at low cost, this may compromise the ability to pro.duce green hydrogen at an affordable price.  We source RECs and (v)PPAs as needed to ensure the hydrogen we produce is consid.ered green. To help understand our sensi.tivity to these prices and better prepare our business, we have also performed sensitivi.ty testing, as described in the Climate Tran.sition Risk Analysis section below.  Medium  TCFD Risk Plug Risk Impact Mitigation Strategies Time Horizon Transition Risk: Reputation  Shifts in consum- As customers focus on  Green hydrogen is one of the lead- We are working on developing green hy- Medium  er preferences  sustainability in purchas.ing decisions grows, fail.ing to meet the product demand results in cus.tomers finding alterna.tives  ing alternative fuels in reducing the impact of GHG emissions, and it has a wide array of uses across different sectors including transportation, telecommunication, and energy. As technology development begins to align with green hydrogen produc.tion, there is a risk that the market demand for green hydrogen will be too great for us to maintain produc.tion and inventory. Our production goal is to produce 500 tons of green hydrogen a day by 2025, and in the next 2-5 years, if green hydrogen technology is developed and afford-ably priced, our green hydrogen de.mand projections might not match potential consumer demand, which may cause customers to turn to oth.er alternatives or competitors if their needs are not met, causing a loss of revenue for us.  drogen production infrastructure, supply chain regional diversification, and renew.able energy farms to stay in front of the potential rise of green hydrogen technol.ogy and demand.  Stigmatization of sector  Greenwashing by the broader energy sector has a trickle down effect on ability to attract cus.tomers  Green hydrogen may get stigma.tized as blue or gray hydrogen, which could cause us to experience opposi.tion from environmental groups con.cerned about GHG emissions associ.ated with the production of hydrogen and hydrogen leakages. Consumers may trust environmental groups’ opinions, and negative campaigns can spread to the market based on the idea that Plug is using fossil fuels to generate hydrogen instead of re.newable sources.  We continue to stay transparent in the marketplace, educating and promoting green hydrogen technology and pro.duction methodology. We are also heav.ily involved with governments and other agencies to promote the development of green hydrogen infrastructure and con.sumer trust.  Long  Increased stake.holder concern or negative feed.back  Stakeholders have nega.tive feedback on the use of gray hydrogen  If we are not able to produce enough of our own green hydrogen and must continue to rely on other suppliers for longer than anticipated, stakehold.ers may accuse us of greenwashing, causing negative impacts to our rep.utation and reliability within the mar.ket. This may cause downward pres.sure on stock prices or a loss of sales.  We have a business plan in place to pro.duce green hydrogen at a scalable lev.el over the next five years and beyond, which will eliminate reliance on any gray hydrogen companies, mitigating potential reputation risks.  Medium  TCFD Risk Plug Risk Impact Mitigation Strategies Time Horizon Transition Risk: Acute  Increased severity of extreme weath.er events  Increased floods, wind.storms, cyclones, wildfires, storm surges, hail, drought, etc.  Hydrogen generation plants require stable electricity to produce high quantities of green hydrogen. Impact on electric accessibility in the produc.tion cycle could disrupt plant opera.tions.  We understand the impact of extreme weather events on both production and distribution of green hydrogen, which has allowed the establishment of highly ef.fective response scenarios that minimize production shutdown. One example of our resilience against extreme weather events occurred at a plant in Tennessee, where lightning struck, burning up an es.sential motor for production. Due to our pre-planning, the ability to find, install, and begin production at the Tennessee plant occurred in 24 hours, contrasting competitors in the other energy sectors who would take 4-6 weeks for the same problem. There is a focus on business continuity plans for both distribution cen.ters and hydrogen generation plants.  Medium  Hydrogen storage requires extremely low temperatures to maintain hydro.gen in a usable form, and natural di.sasters present a risk to the storage by compromising the temperature it is able to be kept at.  We have established a preventive system, where every 2 hours computers can mon.itor fuel cell operations at every plant to keep watch for any issues that could af.fect production, holding, or distribution of green hydrogen. Further, to protect against the risk of power outages, we have invested in high pressure tankers to be on standby at production and hold fa.cilities in case power goes out during an extreme weather event.  Increased extreme weather events may impact suppliers’ ability to pro.duce and deliver key materials to us, which may impact the ability to con.tinue operations.  As previously mentioned, we purchase many raw materials in advance and store it at local sites to ensure sufficient hy.drogen supply, which helps to mitigate against the potential disruption in our supply chain.  Natural disasters may impact us by disrupting the ability to deliver prod.ucts to consumers should transporta.tion routes, which are limited to DOT Hazmat regulations, be disrupted.  We have an extensive weather tracking system, where paths of extreme weather events can be predicted, and if a storm is going to affect a client, we will shift dis.tribution focus to make sure the client is full on green hydrogen to maintain opera.tions post weather event.  TCFD Risk Plug Risk Impact Mitigation Strategies Time Horizon Transition Risk: Chronic  Changes in precip.itation patterns & extreme variability in weather pat.terns  Decreased levels of precip.itation causing droughts and water shortages, re.sulting in water consump.tion regulations  Water is one of our most important resources in the production of green hydrogen. A decrease in precipitation creates a risk to our hydrogen gener.ation capacity as electrolysis requires large quantities of water, which may lead to an inability to meet the market demand for green hydrogen. Areas of drought may intersect areas with high renewable energy production, so we will need to manage the inter.section of drought and renewable en.ergy to operate effectively.  We own water treatment plants to utilize recycled water in California for green hy.drogen production. In addition, we are planning to invest in more water treat.ment plants near current and future pro.duction facilities to address the risk of wa.ter scarcity, by using more recycled water. Our technology team is also devoted to research of technology to produce hydro.gen utilizing less water.  Long  Extreme variability in weath.er patterns results in disrup.tions to the global supply chain  Relying on both domestic and inter.national distribution of renewable en.ergy materials, precious metals, and other supply chain needs, extreme variation in current and future weath.er patterns may significantly impact our supply chain. Extreme weather variability complicates the planning, timing, and execution of the trans.portation of goods. Supply chain dis- As a mitigation strategy, we have taken a holistic approach in supply chain manage.ment, by focusing on regional acquisition and partnerships instead of one source imports. For example, we purchase raw materials in large quantities in advance, partnering with different agencies on re.gional scales to store the raw materials,  Long  ruption, particularly for a prolonged period of time, may increase our op.erational costs due to the stoppage of production associated with lack of precious metals.  to ensure sufficient supply to custom.ers should there be a disruption due to weather or other unforeseen events.  Rising sea levels  Sea level rise impacts op.erational continuity due to increased flooding  Our production facilities are estab.lished in geographical locations across the US that are not expected to be directly impacted by sea level rise. However, our supply chain ports are located along the ocean coasts, where sea level rises could impact car.go ship docking and transportation vehicles needed to produce green hydrogen. These supply change ob.stacles can result in green hydrogen production slowdowns, reducing the overall product output and capacity for consumers. However, as sea level rise occurs in gradual increments, the likelihood of sea levels reaching a lev.el that would result inOur production facilities are established in geograph.ical locations across the US that are not expected to be directly impacted  No mitigation steps have been deemed necessary at this time.  Long  by sea level rise. However, our sup.ply chain ports are located along the ocean coasts, where sea level rises could impact cargo ship docking and transportation vehicles needed to produce green hydrogen. These supply change obstacles can result in green hydrogen production slow.downs, reducing the overall product output and capacity for consumers. However, as sea level rise occurs in gradual increments, the likelihood of sea levels reaching a level that would result in complete supply chain shut downs is unlikely in the defined time frame.  