Product & Turnkey Solutions Product and Turnkey Solutions We offer an array of green hydrogen solutions that address every step of operations, including: Green hydrogen production through electrolysis: Plug electrolyzers use technology called proton exchange membrane (PEM) water electrolysis that can be paired with renewable and intermittent sources of energy such as solar, wind, and hydro-electric power to produce green hydrogen at a low cost to customers. Large markets for green hydrogen include companies producing steel, fertilizer, oil and gas, and chemicals like ammonia and methanol, fuel for fuel cell vehicles like buses and long-haul trucks, and power generation. Expertise from the Frames Group acquisition has allowed the development of three distinct products for our electrolyzer: A 1MW and 5MW solution that include the entire balance of plant needed to produce green hydrogen allowing a turnkey solution for hydrogen production at customer sites, as well as a 10MW array that can be used as the building block of larger plants with orders for up to 1GW already placed. Hydrogen liquefaction: Plug liquifies hydrogen for transportation at atmospheric pressure and temperatures below -400ºF resulting in extremely high efficiency. This technology is crucial to allow last mile delivery of zero carbon hydrogen molecules to end users to decarbonize their operations. Continued work with the team from our Joule acquisition will allow Plug’s green hydrogen plants to internally source liquifiers with industry leading efficiency. The 30 TPD liquifier Plug has developed has already received multiple orders. Hydrogen transportation: Plug designs and manufactures cryogenic trailers and mobile storage equipment for hydrogen and other markets. This enables efficient long-distance transportation of liquid and gaseous hydrogen to meet customer needs. Plug Cryo trailers have some of the highest payloads in the industry for hydrogen delivery. Hydrogen compression and storage: Plug’s hydrogen compression and storage system is compromised of a bulk liquid storage that can hold between 15,000 to 18,000 gallons of liquid hydrogen at -423ºF, compressors and liquid pumps to compress to 7,000 psi and gaseous storage tubes that can hold up to 120 kg of gaseous hydrogen — enabling onsite storage at customer locations for a variety of fuel cell applications. Hydrogen refueling stations for dispensing: Plug’s hydrogen dispenser systems are available at 350 bar and 700 bar for mobility and material handling applications. The dispenser systems display a user interface system and state-of-the art safety systems. Plug has more than 165 hydrogen refueling stations at sites across the U.S. addressing a variety of material handling and mobility requirements. Hydrogen fuel cells: Plug develops and manufactures PEM-based fuel cells that power forklifts, fork-trucks, Class 6 through Class 8 trucks, and serve as backup or primary generators at distribution and data centers. Fuel cells are also being used now at charging stations for electric vehicles (EVs). We provide green hydrogen solutions to replace batteries in electric material handling vehicles and industrial trucks for some of the world’s largest distribution and manufacturing businesses such as Amazon, Walmart, Home Depot and Lowe’s to name a few. We are focusing our efforts on industrial mobility applications, including electric forklifts and electric industrial vehicles, at multi shift high-volume manufacturing and high-throughput distribution sites where we believe our products and services provide a unique combination of productivity, flexibility, and environmental benefits. Additionally, we manufacture and sell fuel cell products to replace diesel generators in stationary backup power applications for data centers, telecommunications, transportation, and utility customers. Other Plug services include our ongoing data-based maintenance and on-site service program for material handling fuel cells, mobility and stationary fuels cells, hydrogen compression, storage, and dispensing systems. Aside from these products and services, there are immense opportunities for others to capitalize on the green hydrogen momentum. New market applications such as green hydrogen commercial fleet vehicles, stationary power, aerospace, and more are emerging to disrupt diesel and fossil fuel-run industries. For example, Class 3 to Class 8 commercial fleet vehicles for last, middle mile, and long-haul journeys are being built for zero emissions hydrogen use cases. We are excited about what the future holds for our innovation here at Plug and will continue to hire the best talent to develop these sustainable solutions! 1 US Department of Energy, “Fuel Cells Fact Sheet”, https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/files/2015/11/f27/ fcto_fuel_cells_fact_sheet.pdf Risk Management Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management Plug conducts an enterprise risk assessment as part of the Enterprise Risk Management program every year.  This process is comprehensive and includes both an inside-out and outside-in identification of risks, as well as identifies key threats, existing mitigations, and future action items.  The results of this risk assessment are reported to the Board of Directors. Plug also goes through an annual strategy refresh to clearly identify and articulate strategic goals and targets in preparation for the annual planning and budgeting process, as well as the annual Plug Symposium, which is a public discussion of key accomplishments and strategic direction across Plug’s business lines. Senior management has mechanisms supporting formalized governance processes, including weekly and monthly meetings to discuss financial results, growth targets, and other key performance indicators, as well as discuss strategy and gain consensus for key decisions. Plug also has regular reviews of project status including timeline and cost for expansion projects and new products with leadership, and ongoing monitoring such as tracking failure rates and incidents.  Climate Risk and Opportunity Assessment In establishing our corporate strategy, we have also considered the impact that climate change has on our business and have conducted analysis to understand both the transition risks and the physical risks that could arise. In 2022, we completed our first qualitative climate risk and opportunity assessment. The assessment was aligned to the TCFD risk taxonomy to provide a complete understanding of the types of climate-related risks and opportunities our business may face in the coming years. For each of the TCFD risk and opportunity categories, we identified one or more risks/opportunities specific to us and identified the associated potential impacts to our business should the risk or opportunity come to fruition. Each identified risk and opportunity were also assigned a time horizon which indicates the timing of when we believe the risk/opportunity may occur. We define short-term as 0-1 year, medium-term as 2-5 years, and long-term as 5-10 years. Our results also highlight the significant growth potential of our product lines, which we believe are positioned to not only lead the transition to a low-carbon economy, but also to reduce physical risks. Climate Risk Assessment and Opportunity Results are detailed in the appendix. Quantitative Physical Risk Scenario Analysis To better understand the resilience of our business, we leverage a consultant to assist us in performing scenario analysis to analyze how physical climate risk may impact ourassets in different future states. Current and planned future sites were evaluated on their potential exposure to acute physical climate risks including drought, flood, hail, hurricane, wildfire, and wind gust. These perils were chosen based on their likelihood to impact our business operations in regards to producing hydrogen and renewable energy. We chose to look at risk scores in two scenarios derived from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs). The scenarios are described below: • SSP 1-2.6 (“Taking the Green Road”) – This is an optimistic pathway, where emissions begin declining immediately and go to zero by 2100. In this scenario, global temperature rise is likely to be below 2°C by 2100. • SSP 5-8.5 (“Fossil-fueled Development”) – In this pathway, there are high challenges to mitigations and low challenges to adaptation, where emissions continue to rise throughout the 21st century. In this scenario, global surface temperatures are likely to be 4oC by 2100. Each peril and climate change scenario were examined over the time horizon range of 2030.2050. Risk scores from 0-100 were assigned based on climate science of historical and projected events that vary for each peril. The graphics below show the results of the locations analyzed, with different colored dots indicating the peril with the highest risk score in that location. The line graphs also show how the average risk scores of all locations are expected to change over time. Climate Transition Risk Analysis Through our qualitative climate risk assessment, we determined that increased prices in raw materials, a TCFD market transition risk, was a risk to our business. To analyze this potential climate transition risk, we performed a sensitivity modeling exercise on our future cost of purchasing green energy through the market in the form of Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) and Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs). This provides us with overall cost planning of purchasing green energy that will come from the electricity grid rather than direct connection to our renewable energy sites. For this modeling exercise, we assume that future prices of RECs will increase based on demand for renewable energy due to many emissions reduction targets being made in the market. We modeled our sensitivity to this potential change in price by multiplying our expected amount of RECs needed with a future REC price. 