Forward-Looking Statements All financial numbers in this report are based on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements do not constitute guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations, are subject to uncertainties and changes in circumstances, and involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. For a further description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, as well as risks relating to the business of PLUG in general, see PLUG’s public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including the “Risk Factors” section of PLUG’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,2021 and any subsequent filings with the SEC., The forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof, and PLUG undertakes no obligation to update such statements as a result of new information. All financial numbers in this report are based on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.Letter from the Chief Executive Officer Plug’s mission is to bring advantages of the total green hydrogen ecosystem value chain to customers and people everywhere. We are here to guide the world to a more sustainable future with accessible, dependable, and cost-effective green hydrogen energy. While there are many solutions to help our world reach its net-zero emission goals, we believe green hydrogen is the future to safely powering at least 20% of the planet. 2021 was a year marked by growth, increased innovation, and focused execution of Plug’s purpose, which is to reimagine the energy ecosystem and promote the green hydrogen economy. We continue to deliver on our purpose to build the clean hydrogen economy through solutions that lower carbon footprints, increase productivity, and lower operating costs. We are enabling the paradigm shift to an electrified world by innovating clean, cutting-edge hydrogen fuel cell solutions across a broad spectrum of transportation, aerial, and stationary applications. While we are driven by our ability to provide the world with a way to operate more sustainability, consistently, and efficiently, we believe that we must deliver on our own strategy to do the same. Plug was the first energy company to believe in the hydrogen revolution. The idea came from our customers, who reached out and asked for a new energy source. We went all in to make commercial hydrogen a reality and built an ecosystem with our customers and environment in mind. It worked. Today, global clients are reaping tremendous economic and environmental benefits. And we are bringing the advantages of the total, end-to-end Green Hydrogen solutions to customers everywhere, around the world.Since we released our 2020 report, we have made incredible strides to positively lessen our environmental footprint, support the well-being of our people, and support the communities where we live and operate. We remain committed to upholding our high ethical standards for business practices and to our people-first approach. In 2021, we focused on executing four strategic initiatives: • Maintaining our strong revenue growth• Expanding our green hydrogen business• Successfully launching several joint ventures, which expanded our global presence and offerings• Continuing to expand our existing joint ventures, partnerships, and acquisitions in the hydrogen ecosystemOur newly formed joint venture with Renault, Hyvia, is building multiple hydrogen fuel cell-powered light and medium duty commercial vehicles, which will begin deployment for test pilot programs in Europe during 2022. During our 2021 Plug Symposium, we announced major breakthroughs in our development of creating a zero-emission hydrogen fuel cell vehicle. The zero-emission Renault Master Van equipped with 30kW fuel cell solution based on our Plug ProGen platform can be refueled in minutes and will boast a range of more than three hundred miles, making it an ideal vehicle for light and medium duty commercial vehicles to transport goods. To achieve our goals, we expanded domestically and are beginning to tap into international markets. In 2021, we announced four (4) new hydrogen plants for New York, Georgia, Texas, and California. Plug subsequently broke ground on the plants in New York and Georgia, which we expect will begin producing green hydrogen in 2022. We also announced the location of our European service and logistics center in Duisburg, Germany and the Plug Innovation Center in Rochester, NY, which will provide about 375 new jobs in the region. With this expansion and our strong customer relationships, our company achieved revenue of $502 million in 2021, that represents 49% growth in gross revenue compared to 2020. For additional information, please see our current form 10-K which is available on the Investor Relations section of our website: Click here for the Plug 2021 10-KTo keep pace with our rapid growth, we also increased our workforce by approximately 1,226 employees, that equates to roughly a 96% increase year over year. Our people are the foundation of everything we do and maintaining a safe workplace is a top priority at Plug. With that commitment to our people as a guiding principle, we added the role of a COVID Concierge to offer employees information about vaccinations, schedule vaccine appointments, and arrange rides to and from appointments. The COVID Concierge is also responsible for tracking and tracing potential exposures and illnesses to help combat the virus and minimize the impact to our people, communities, and business. I am extremely proud that we have achieved an exemplary workforce health and safety record, provided our employees with more than 19,500 hours of training, and enhanced our focus on increasing the racial, ethnic, and gender makeup of our workforce. Plug takes considerable pride in being an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and an employer of choice for veterans. In recognition of the importance of giving back to our communities, we enlarged our internal community relations team and exceeded our goal of facilitating more than $50,000 in direct employee contributions to United Way. Throughout this tremendous growth, we seek opportunities to collaborate with other like-minded stakeholders to reduce our impact on the planet and provide low-carbon solutions. In November 2021, I represented Plug at the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow, Scotland where I had the opportunity to discuss the future of sustainability innovation and policy with leaders from across the globe. I had the privilege of speaking with Secretary John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, among others to discuss pressing issues in the climate space including how companies like Plug can invest in developing nations to increase their use of clean energy. Plug will continue to play an important role as an international thought leader on policies to promote the production and use of green hydrogen to decarbonize the world economy and meet key climate goals.Plug was also admitted into the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), an organization where more than four hundred companies work together to support responsible mineral producing and sourcing around the world. With the support of RMI, Plug will further its goal of creating energy responsibly, including in high-risk areas. Plug will continue to play a key role as an international thought leader on policies to promote the production and use of green hydrogen to decarbonize the world economy and meet key climate goals.We could not be more excited about Plug’s opportunities to create an inspiring vision for the future of our employees, customers, investors, and communities. We are still early in our own sustainability journey and there is certainly more work to do, however, I hope this report helps you understand how Plug contributes to the future of the clean hydrogen economy, and to building a sustainable future for our planet.  Andrew Marsh,President and CEOAbout Us Plug is a leading provider of end-to-end green hydrogen solutions that enable the decarbonization of the planet. Plug offers green hydrogen solutions for a variety of markets and applications with an ecosystem of vertically integrated products that make, transport, store, and compress, dispense and use hydrogen. Additionally, as one of the largest users of liquid hydrogen and with more hydrogen refueling stations than any competitor, we have positioned ourselves as a leader to build and commercialize the emerging green hydrogen economy. As the first to create a commercially viable market for hydrogen fuel cells (HFC), which power electric motors with zero emissions, we have deployed more than 52,000 fuel cell units and have almost 25 years of innovation in fuel cells. We are a people-first company, building for the future on the brilliance, dedication, and determination of our employees. Our innovative products are developed and supported by our global footprint and workforce. Plug is headquartered in Latham, NY with research laboratories, service and training centers, manufacturing facilities, and liquid hydrogen plants across North America and Europe. In 2021, Plug grew tremendously. On Nov. 12, 2021, we held a grand opening of the Plug Innovation Center, our green hydrogen and PEM fuel cell Gigafactory in Rochester, NY. This is New York’s first and largest fuel cell and electrolyzer manufacturing Gigafactory and is expected to create almost 375 new jobs in Monroe County. We expandedour green hydrogen generation footprint to include locations in Camden County, GA, Fresno County, CA, and the New York Science, Technology and Advanced Manufacturing Park (STAMP), in Monroe County, NY, having broken ground on the plants in Georgia and New York in 2021. As of the first quarter of 2022, Plug employs 1,683 people, 829 of which were hired within the reporting period. The map below depictsour current locations and planned future locations:We are innovating at a rapid pace through in-house development, acquisitions, and joint partnerships. Our company’s capacity to produce green hydrogen is on pace to expand to 500 TPD of production in North America by 2025 and 1,000TPD on a global basis by 2028. Our future projects will decrease the cost of green hydrogen significantly. Through the development of these breakthrough technologies, we maintain a large portfolio of intellectual property with 102 live and 7 pending patents in the United States (as of April 21, 2022). We are innovating at a rapid pace through in-house development, acquisitions, and joint partnerships. Our company’s capacity to produce green hydrogen is on pace to expand to 500 TPD of production in North America by 2025 and 1,000 TPD on a global basis by 2028. Our future projects will decrease the cost of green hydrogen significantly. Through the development of these breakthrough technologies, we maintain a large portfolio of intellectual property with 102 live and 7 pending patents in the United States (as of April 21, 2022). About This Report Plug views ESG as the universe of topics we use to evaluate our relationship with society and the environment. These topics assess impacts and dependencies of our business on society and the environment and connect them to areas of performance management. Several reporting frameworks and standards have been developed with the purpose of enhancing transparency and consistency and communicating sustainability as it relates to these non-financial disclosures. We recognize that the market is moving toward a more standardized reporting process and that our stakeholders seek improved comparability and consistency in reporting across countries and industries. In a rapidly evolving ESG landscape, we are dedicated towards establishing a systematic and integrated approach to address risks, drive value, and build organizational resilience.  This report covers Plug’s ESG-related efforts for the 2021 calendar year. We report in alignment with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards for the Fuel Cells and Industrial Batteries industry.