Environment Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Electricity Usage, and Water Consumption We are excited to share that we have disclosed our in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. environmental impact and action as part of our This inventory provides a detailed account of our commitment to sustainability. We have conducted company’s GHG emissions and allows us to identify a comprehensive greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory opportunities for emissions reductions. Reporting Year  Water Withdrawn (U.S. Gallons)  Scope 1 GHG Emissions (MTCO2e)  Scope 2 GHG Emis.sions (MTCO2e)  Electricity Usage (MWh)  2022  10,376,213  16,910  20,141  60,277  To calculate our GHG inventory, we defined our operational boundaries identifying the operations and activities that contribute to our company’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. We considered all of our direct emissions sources, such as fuel combustion in our facilities (stationary) and company-owned vehicles (mobile), as well as indirect emissions sources, such as electricity consumption. Once we established our operational boundaries, we collected data on our emissions sources and calculated our GHG emissions using internationally recognized emission factors. Our GHG inventory report includes a breakdown of our emissions by Scope, which provides a detailed understanding of where our emissions are coming from. This information allows us to monitor and manage our environmental impacts as we look to make net-zero commitments. We are committed to using our GHG inventory as a tool for monitoring and managing our emissions to ensure that we are operating in a sustainable and responsible manner. Measuring our emissions allows us to identify levers of decarbonization. Plug measures water consumption and use for both industrial and sanitary purposes, including manufacturing processes, R&D processes, pollution control equipment, cooling water equipment, irrigation, and non-production related maintenance applications. We obtain this information from water meters, water bills, or calculations based on available water data. Plug’s water metering efforts are still ongoing, and the company plans to improve its measurement capabilities in the future by adding more meters and enhancing its ability to capture data. These efforts will allow the company to more accurately track its water usage and identify opportunities for conservation and efficiency improvements. Plug is committed to reducing its water footprint and promoting sustainability in its operations, and the implementation of advanced water metering technology is a crucial step towards achieving this goal. As a key input in the electrolyzer process, it is paramount that Plug understands its water consumption and its effects on local communities. While hydrogen is a clean and versatile fuel that will be important in the transition to a greener economy, it’s important to note that water is consumed in the production of hydrogen through electrolysis. This means that as more industries adopt hydrogen as a fuel source and Plug continues its growth, the demand for water is likely to increase. We consider the environmental and social implications of this increased water usage, especially in regions where water scarcity is already a concern. To address these challenges, it’s essential to implement sustainable water management practices and promote water conservation efforts in the hydrogen production process. We own water treatment plants to utilize recycled water in California for green hydrogen production. In addition, we are planning to invest in more water treatment plants near current and future production facilities to address the risk of water scarcity, by using more recycled water. Our technology team is also devoted to research of technology to produce hydrogen utilizing less water. We are a growing business and this growth leads to increased production, transportation, as well as water and electricity consumption. The production of green hydrogen requires large quantities of electricity. Our consumption of electricity will likely increase as we expand our use of electrolyzers to generate hydrogen. Plug is focused on utilizing renewable energy sources such as wind and solar to produce the electricity used in electrolysis. By producing hydrogen using renewable energy sources, we are creating a zero-emissions fuel that can be used to power a wide range of applications that are currently responsible for a significant proportion of global greenhouse gas emissions. Our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions may increase on an absolute basis in the near term as we continue to grow. We are seeking to reduce the intensity of our emissions as we improve the efficiency of our operations. While we acknowledge that our growth may lead to increased emissions, we are taking proactive steps to address this and are committed to being a responsible and sustainable company for the long term. For example, we are investing in renewable energy sources, exploring opportunities to increase our energy efficiency and prioritizing sustainable transportation options to reduce our carbon footprint. Environmental Benefits of Green Hydrogen We believe green hydrogen will play a significant role in lowering greenhouse gas emissions and help adapters reach net zero goals. By achieving our goals of commissioning 500 TPD of green hydrogen in 2025 and 1,000 TPD of green hydrogen in 2028, we will be offsetting substantial greenhouse gas emissions versus fossil fuel alternatives. The production of 500 TPD of green hydrogen will replace 500,000 gallons of diesel daily with 1.62 million metric tons of carbon emissions avoided per year. This is equivalent to carbon emissions from 200,000 households or 1.79 million tons of coal burned. The production of 1,000 TPD of green hydrogen will replace 1 million gallons of diesel daily, eliminating 3.25 million metric tons of carbon emissions per year. This is equivalent to carbon emissions from 400,000 households or 3.6 million tons of coal burned. Product Stewardship & Supply Chain Circularity At Plug, we have a companywide emphasis on the circular economic model regarding end-of-life products such as fuel cells and electrolyzers. We have a four-pronged approach to recycle, reuse, repurpose, and remanufacture the precious metals in our processes. Our supply chain at Plug consists of two separate channels: The first channel is our vertical supply chain through our fuel cell and electrolyzer solutions and the second is our third-party supply chain, where we deliver goods and services by outside vendors. The vertically integrated GenKey solution ties together all critical elements to power, fuel, and provide service to customers. We are now leveraging its know-how, modular product architecture and foundational customers to rapidly expand into other key markets, including zero-emission road vehicles, robotics, and data centers. We are continuing to improve on our reporting process to help us execute on our commitments to the development of the green hydrogen economy. Plug is also excited to expand our partnership with Johnson Matthey (JM), a global leader in sustainable technologies, to focus on the development, validation and incorporation of JM’s advanced materials in Plug’s leading electrolyzer systems. This includes development of a closed-loop recycling system for the critical platinum group metals (PGM) used as catalysts in our PEM electrolyzers. JM has a proven track record and deep expertise in developing innovative, high-performance coating materials, Catalyst coated membranes (CCM) technology and as the world’s largest secondary refiner of PGM is perfectly placed to drive the creation of closed-loop recycling systems within the green hydrogen supply chain. Plug continues to be sharply focused on our use and recycling of PGMs and have language in our contracts that enable us to facilitate the circular life of our products. The expanded partnership will see Plug and JM co-invest in what is expected to be the largest (5GW scaling to 10GW over time) CCM manufacturing facility in the world. The facility will be built in the United States and likely begin production in 2025. This partnership continues Plug’s vertical integration strategy to drive scale for PEM products, lowering per unit costs, and improve access to raw materials Concurrently, our engineering team is working diligently on our loading in our membrane electrode assemblies (MEAs) specifically regarding iridium (Ir) to reduce the use of precious metals by 70% in our electrolyzers in the next five years. We expect within the stack that iridium loading will go from 1.2mg/cm^2 to 0.5 mg/cm^2. By recycling our electrolyzer stacks as the green hydrogen market grows, while continuously lowering iridium loading, we see demand for new iridium supply peaking in 2030, and declining rapidly in the 2040s. The peak also represents iridium usage that is lower than PEM electrolyzers and spark plugs combined in 2022. We have continued our work with Elemet, a company that resells recycled and reused materials to continue to be used in the economy. Plug has contracted with Elemet to continue to bolster the circular nature of our products’ raw materials and key components. These materials are sold as scrap once the components have been converted into a clean scrap material following the Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries (ISRI) guidelines after manual deconstruction, mechanical size reduction such as shredding, milling, granulation, and commodity segregation, or accumulation through magnetic, air, vibratory, screening, or manual separation. We are currently working to better understand the environmental impacts of our products’ manufacturing processes and life cycles. As part of this initiative, we began a project to quantify our carbon footprint for each of our products. We successfully completed quantifying the Carbon Intensity Life Cycle Assessment for our material handling fuel cells, and established a critical baseline that allows us to improve our future products. Assessing carbon intensity of our products across the life cycle is a critical part of our product development to track improvements and measure against our baseline. We plan to continue this important work in 2023 by quantifying the carbon footprint of additional products. We also monitor products reaching the end of their life cycle. When they can no longer be used for their intended purpose, we employ four end-of-life treatment options: Rental program: During high-demand times, we will rent products from vendors when their life cycle ends and we will return them to the vendor. Component reclamation: We reclaim used fuel cell components. Internal use: Once a product has been used, we will deconstruct it and reuse any pieces we can leverage in our day-to-day operations. Refurbish and recycle: We recycle or resell the products once deconstructed. Finally, to manage the environmental and social elements of our supply chain, We are also leveraging a software called EcoVadis. EcoVadis is a provider of business sustainability ratings, creating a global network of more than 75,000 rated companies. This system has enhanced our visibility into the environmental and societal impacts of our vendors across critical themes: environment, labor and human rights, ethics, and sustainable procurement. EcoVadis looks within organizations to assess risks including critical materials, conflict materials, ethical business practices, and environmental impacts. Using this tool, we have created scorecards to assess and engage with our suppliers. Hazardous Waste Management The hazardous wastes we produce is lithium ion and coolant. Due to the hazardous nature of these materials, we utilize responsible vendors who transport this waste safely to ensure nothing is damaged and there are no injuries; the lithium ion is sold to a third-party vendor. Hydrogen is also an output product of electrolyzers, which is typically used to power hydrogen fuel cells. Excess hydrogen is vented into the atmosphere after being mixed with nitrogen and neutralized, so it is not flammable or explosive. Minimizing our environmental impacts As well as providing zero-emission fuel cells to our customers, Plug also utilizes these same fuel cells in our own facilities, where applicable. Our forklifts and pallet jacks are powered by Plug fuel cells and use Plug hydrogen dispensing technology, cutting down on energy use and emissions and enhancing the effectiveness of the equipment. Plug has invested more than $125 million into its Innovation Center and Gigafactory at 1025 John Street in West Henrietta, N.Y. where it will design, test, and manufacture the core technology that goes into fuel cells and electrolyzers. In 2023, the West Henrietta location will be fully operational and will produce Membrane Electrode Assemblies that will be used for fuel cell and electrolyzer stack technology and be implemented in applications around the world. At full capacity, the location will make up to 65,000 stacks. The facility participated in community outreach and public participation meetings for potential stakeholders within the vicinity of the facility to ensure they are aware of the operation of the plant and to give them an opportunity to provide input into the environmental permitting process. During the meetings, Plug provided an overview of the proposed operations at the Gigafactory, the environmental permitting requirements, and potential environmental impacts and controls proposed to mitigate those impacts. Part of the permitting process included feedback from the public on the potential environmental impacts from the facility’s operation. Members of the public could provide feedback during the question.and-answer period of the public meeting or submit comments online. No significant environmental impacts are anticipated during operation of the Innovation Center, which will meet federal, state, and local codes, regulations, and permits. As part of the air permit application process, Plug  reviewed all applicable requirements and demonstrated the factory will meet New York State requirements for health-based off-site air quality. Emissions from the primary process operation will be controlled using a state-of-the-art thermal oxidizer to destroy air contaminants before being released to the air. Use of Green Building Technology As we continue to expand, our top priorities are maintaining biodiversity and employing green building technologies in new facilities. Plug places importance on selecting new facility locations that minimize our footprint and allow our employees to appreciate our natural surroundings, and We are evaluating the use of Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) standards when evaluating new sites. Areas of focus for our new spaces include using regenerative load banks which help eliminate coolant loops and reduce energy use. We are also focused on minimizing the disturbance of wetlands, and the addition of recreational areas such as mountain bike trails to optimize the outdoor space. Plug is also exploring opportunities to obtain LEED Operations and Maintenance (O+M) Certifications for Cybersecurity We are focused on managing cybersecurity risks as our business continues to grow. This requires constant monitoring and protection from potential cyber threats. Our cybersecurity strategy includes preventative measures, proactive monitoring, alerting, employee education, and business continuity planning. The Director of IT is responsible for leading the company’s cybersecurity program, and Plug’s Board of Directors is updated at least twice annually on the company’s cybersecurity efforts. We have established our cybersecurity program in alignment with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework. We utilize tools and technologies such as virtual private networks (VPN), multi-factor authentication (MFA), and complex passwords and further subscribe to the principle of least privilege in support of our Identity and Access Management strategy. existing buildings as well as opportunities to obtain LEED certifications for new buildings in the future. Plug is committed to a sustainable energy supply and recognizes the role we must play in advancing toward a clean energy future. We will continue to develop our products and processes to minimize both our own and our customer’s environmental impact to progress toward the green hydrogen economy we envision around the world. Additionally, we monitor our IT environment through our Network Operations Center, conduct purposeful network health and instance verification tests (IVT), administer a strict and continuous patching regimen, and leverage best-in-class tools to prevent and/or detect potential vulnerabilities. To further ensure we are proactively addressing emerging risks, we contract a leading third-party cybersecurity firm to periodically assess our IT environment and cybersecurity posture. Plug’s exempt and nonexempt employees are required to perform annual security awareness training which covers topics such as access management, phishing and other areas that affect day-to-day security. New employees also receive training to educate them on their role in protecting Plug’s systems and data. Furthermore, business continuity and disaster recovery plans have been developed and are tested on a routine basis. 