People As a people-first company, Plug was honored to have been named one of the “Best Places to Work” by the Albany Business Review for the seventh time in 2021. From continually striving to enhance the diversity of our workforce to our dedication to maintaining a safe and healthy workplace, we aspire to be an employer of choice in all markets where we have a presence. Over the past few months, the Human Resources team has collaborated with employees to gather feedback Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Plug is here to change the world, and it’s our people that drive change to make the world a better place. We are powered by the collective differences of our employees, customers, and stakeholders, and we value different perspectives to solve complex problems and bring innovative solutions.At Plug, our people come first. We promise to listen and hear inspiration from around the globe, championing inclusivity, respecting each other, and celebrating our differences as we build an environment in which we are all proud to be a part.We are committed to the principles of affirmative action and equal employment opportunity (EEO) for all. We seek to maintain a healthy, safe, and productive workplace free from discrimination or harassment. Plug’s employment practices go beyond just compliance. We will not discriminate in employment practices due to an applicant’s race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identityor expression, transgender status, age, national origin, disability status, criminal record, or veteran status. Our CEO, Andy Marsh, together with the leadership team, drive these efforts, which are embedded in our culture and policies. •Diversity: We embrace the unique characteristics and social identities of our employees. Collectively, regarding our company’s new Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion statement. Thankyou for lending your time and voice. We will continue to drive change, embrace our unique differences and build our culture. We are better together, one Plug team. The following is our new Diversity, Equity & Inclusion statement.these individual differences enhance our culture and company achievements. At Plug, we’re humble but gutsy – we are listeners and learners whose strength comes from our intellectual and social diversity. That diversity powers innovation and inspires our team.•Equity: All employees have equal opportunity to advance. People are the power of Plug, and we are committed to the investment in our employees. We pledge to provide everyone at Plug with equal opportunity to grow and develop, leveraging the unique skills and differences of their individual background, characteristics, and aspirations.•Inclusion: We are on a journey to cultivate inclusivity as an organization. At Plug, we are transparent and collaborative, welcoming ideas, thoughts, and questions from everyone. We respect different strengths and viewpoints, understanding that we are stronger together. Perspectives from the collective whole make us better, as we know that we are all part of something bigger than ourselves.Together, we will change the world for the good of the planet and future generations.To support and shape our DEI strategy, we track diversity categories within a dashboard in our human capital software. We currently track and report on race, age group, and gender of our governance bodies and employees. We believe that our DEI strategy, like any other, should be rooted in data and analytics to measure progress and foster accountability. In the first six months of 2021, we added a DEI awareness training to the learning plan for our leadership team and plan to distribute this training to all employees in early 2022. We currently (as of March 31,2022) have approximately 2,250 permanent employees and roughly 450 temporary workers (17% of total workers). Our employee turnover rate in 2021 for permanent employees was 16.36%. A considerable number of temporary workers is required in manufacturing as we navigate our rapid growth, but the goal is for them to transition to permanent employees.WORKFORCE BY GENDER WORKFORCE BY AGE Female Male under 30years old (<30yrs) 30-50 years old 2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 12%  88%  14%  86%  15%  85%  over 50 years old (>50 yrs) 20%  51%  29%  23%  50%  27%  27%  47%  26%  Percentage by Race White  Black/African American  Latino  Asian  Two or more races  Native Hawaiin or other Pacific Islanders  American Indian or Alaskan Native  Undeclared  Human Resources (HR) prepares the upcoming year’s Affirmative Action Plan and corresponding goals, which are presented to Plug’s leadership. This process includes collecting updateddata and any required EEO and Veterans’ Employment and Training Service (VETS) reporting, compiling the annual data for compliance reporting, refreshing plan data and goals as needed, and finally reviewing and sharing this annually with the executive leadership team.To progress further on our DEI initiatives such as recruitment, talent development, and equitable compensation packages, we have established the following policies:• Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action policies• Disability Policy• Veteran Policy• Pay Transparency• Individuals with Disabilities and Pregnancy-Related Conditions• Prohibition of Discrimination, Sexual and Other Workplace Harassment, and Retaliation Policy and Reporting ProcedureThese policies are incorporated in the Employee Handbook. Plug employees are provided with a copy of the handbook and are required to review it and confirm their compliance on an annual basis. We also follow the Fair Treatment Policy for our employees and business partners. For more details on this and our human rights commitments, see the Governance section of this report.. To measure utilization and ensure EEO, we regularly analyze incumbency versus availability data. When the percentage of individuals with disabilities and/or minority status in one or more job groups is less than the utilization goal, we take steps to determine whether and where impediments to EEO exist. Our partnership with Circa, formerly known as LocalJobNetwork, supplements these insights. Circa provides Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) compliance management and recruiting technology solutions to deliver a level, equitable playing field for qualified candidates and to meet our goal of building high-performing, diverse teams. Circa has access to a vast network of 15,000 diverse community partners that can support our inclusive culture and trust-building including with veterans, LGBTQ members, individuals with disabilities, minoritygroups, women, college students, and skilled trade associations. Partnerships with universities and assistance from diverse employees also shape our recruiting efforts. We continue to work with veteran recruitment firms like Orion and are proud to have 137 veterans of the U.S. Armed Services working for Plug, representing an increase of 54% from 2020. Additionally, after collecting insights and input from our employees, we will be looking to establish a Women’s Affinity group this year to bring together and empower women in the workplace.Competitive Benefits As part of our commitment to our people, Plug offers employees competitive benefits, including health, vision, and dental plans, flexible spending accounts, comprehensive life insurance (including company provided life insurance), and disability coverage. Additionally, employees are offered a vacation and holiday package, a wellness program to promote active and healthy lifestyles, an employee referral program, educational assistance, and volunteer time. 91.5% of our employees participate in our comprehensive 401(k) package that includes a 401(k)-retirement savings plan, which offers up to a 5% match in Plug stock. To encourage savings, we auto-enroll all employees in the plan after 60 days of employment. Our portfolio reflects our values with increased priority given to socially responsible investing—the plan’s diversified investment options include two socially responsible funds. At Plug, we believe employee well-being is crucial to success — when employees feel their best, they perform their best. We are pleased to offer a comprehensive wellness program that is designed to promote long-Employee Engagement We believe that transparency plays a key role in engaging and energizing our workforce. Our CEO conducts weekly town hall meetings with our employees to share updates on the company’s initiativesand answer any questions. Additionally, our employees meet with their leaders at least quarterly to discuss their job performance and contribution to strategic business objectives, as well as their professional development goals.Where possible, we have adopted remote and hybrid work arrangements which offers many benefits for our employees and company, including cost savings and flexibility.We conduct semi-annual employee engagement surveys to measure progress and satisfaction with a range of initiatives. This was the first year that we incorporated DEI-specific questions in the survey, establishing a baseline for measuring our inclusive culture. This survey yielded a 61% participation rate and 73% overall favorability rate, helping us to better understand experiences across all demographic groups. term healthy, active lifestyles. Employees enrolled in our medical insurance plan can earn a gift card up to $500 by completing qualifying wellness activities. These activities span fitness challenges and preventative care measures with incentives along the way. Additionally, our Fitness Reimbursement Program provides up to $100 per month to accommodate employees’ wellness activities. Even further, Plug management continues to maintain regular and meaningful full-company communication through all-employee meetings, where CEO Andy Marsh, and his extended team, address relevant safety and business topics. This began as a response to COVID-19 remote-working mandates and continues to allow our global employees the opportunity to better understand organizational successes, growth, and change. There is always a Q&A at the end of every meeting where employees are encouraged to ask questions regarding any topic. This meeting is a notable example of our culture given the transparency and open communication. The top three areas given favorable ratings were overall engagement, contributions, and pride, meaning that most participants understand Plug’s business objectives and employee expectations, how their work contributes to our collective success, and are proud to work for us. In response to the survey results, we are improving tools and resources for constructive feedback, clarity around goal development, opportunities to voice opinions, and visibility into career opportunities within our organization.Employee Health and Safety (EHS) The health and safety of our workforce is paramount and has been our top priority throughout the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Plug’s COVID-19 Concierge rolled out an initiative in spring of 2021 to assist Plug employees with obtaining vaccine information and assisted employees in booking and traveling to vaccine appointments. Plug reports all cases at an enterprise level and tracks potential contact to aid in reducing the spread of the virus. Center for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines and related information have been published to our website to provide easy access to information for our employees, customers, suppliers, and communities.Our safety rules ensure that our employees remain safe and injury-free while at work. Our full-time EHS Manager is a Certified Safety Professional who works closely with the HR and Facilities teams to provide a safe workplace for all employees. Our Q-EHS Manual outlines health and safety procedures and details on how these are embedded in Plug’s operations. In 2021, Plug’s Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) for work-related injuries or illnesses was 1.3 and the fatality rate was zero.We require employees to report any safety events, whether there is an actual injury or a near-miss, to their supervisor and respective EHS representative within 24 hours of the event. We analyze each event to identify a cause and take necessary corrective measures so that we may learn from the incident and prevent similar occurrences in the future. Our employee developed Awardco Recognition System rewards employees for reporting and containing safety hazards before they produce an injury or a near miss. This system allows managers to gain visibility into safety hazards and recognize employees for outstanding safety habits with monetary awards that are broadcast to everyone at Plug. All managers are expected to regularly engage with their employees on proper work practices, self-inspections, monthly safety trainings, and investigation of safety events.We established EHS training that is both general and tailored to each employee category, distributed through Workday Learning. Workday Learning is a centralized system that hosts virtual learning programs and allows Plug HR and employees to view completed and outstanding requirements. Training programs include but are not limited to personal protective equipment (PPE), safety reviews, awareness and anticipation, hazard communication per Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) requirements, and chemical and electrical safety. Our EHS Steering Committee, comprised primarily of managers and VPs, oversees this program at a high-level and meets monthly while site-specific safety committees, comprised of employees from a mix of employee categories and business divisions, ensure requirements are met at each of our fixed locations. Our field service employees have a dedicated Training and Safety Manager and a Program Director for Services who manage field service training through the Latitude Learning platform. After their first week, field service employees attend our PowerHub learning center for hands-on experience in a controlled environment. The training delivery methodology consists of live courses led by a professional facilitator, web-based courses with smartphone and tablet compatibility for on-the-go learning, and on-the-job training. The curriculum follows a level structure, meaning it is divided into skill levels, allowing a technician to make a logical progression through the training. Similarly, our project managers and superintendents undergo complex training and receive hands-on experience at a physical site within their first 90 days.In 2021, Plug pursued a variety of localized projects to enhance EHS in alignment with increasing regulatory expectations for additional safety measures throughout the power industry. These have been met with success and we intend to expand them at an enterprise-wide level in 2022. High voltage work is high risk, and our engineers are designing increasingly larger systems, so we are improving electrical safety training accordingly. In 2021, we brought an electrical training contractor into our Latham headquarters to handle these systems with higher voltage. There is now an electrical safety training with four modules, bringing the total trained in high voltage at Latham to about 50 employees. We also worked with a local health and training sustainability consultant to ensure we understand and have proper coverage of New York state regulations at our new Gigafactory in Rochester. This undertaking involved touring the facility and increasing visibility of process safety management. Additionally, at our Albany facility, we conducted a hands-on activity to train employees of all levels on the proper usage of a fire extinguisher—a seemingly small, but valuable lesson in safety. Finally, our EHS Manager and VP of Operations have been working with a local physical therapist to address potential ergonomic issues for our employees. We plan to implement ergonomic solutions to assist in increasing productivity and decreasing muscle fatigue and the severity of work-related musculoskeletal system diseases. Thus far, we have purchased electrical lifts with a 200-lbs capacity.Education and Training Education and training are key to the skills development of our employees. We remain committed to delivering practical, accurate, and job-specific education. In January of 2021, we implemented the Workday Learning system described in the Employee Health and Safety section of this report and the training plan is nearly final. When launched, an overview video was circulated to encourage each employee to better understand and utilize the tool. It is this system that houses the EHS training among other trainings to make sure we meet both regulation and our own high standards. Going above and beyond job-specific training, we offer personal development training on a variety of topics such as sustainability, wellness, and free on-site CPR/AED certification training for employees and family members. In 2021, our employees completed 21,666 total training hours.  Plug offers an intern program, and in 2021 attracted 35 students from universities across the USA to support projects at Plug. Current internship and Co-Op programs include:•Summer Internship Program: This is a 10–12 week intensive experience held over the summer months and is open to both undergraduate and graduate students. Students are provided an opportunity to get a ‘sneak peek’ at potential future Plug employment and help support the various projects, research efforts and needs of the business units. •Co-Ops: Co-Op students are fundamentally different than an interns. While an internship is essentially a paid job that a student completes in the summer or winter break, a Co-Op is a key component of a student’s educational program. These are experiences that their university deems mandatory and requires them to complete for anywhere from 4-12 months.•Senior Student Projects: Senior Student Projects expose students to a real-world industry problem over the course of a semester or two, and the research is conducted on the College/University campus. Plug values and encourages continued education amongst its employees. We offer a tuition reimbursement program, where employees are provided financial support to continue their education. Our internal Step Pay program provides field service technicians –currently 421 – an outlined career path of training and eight separate levels to grow their skills and compensation simultaneously. We also have a partnership with LinkedIn Learning to provide all employees with access to their library of video courses taught by industry experts in areas such as creative, software, and business to broaden employees’ knowledge and skills.Communities Plug recognizes the importance of supporting our local communities as we continue to grow. We encourage our employees to give back in a way that aligns with their individual values by offering recurring and new philanthropy initiatives. We are immensely proud of our significant partnership with the United Way, which aims to advance the common good in communities across the world. This partnership facilitates direct employee donations and contributes to United Way’s four pillars of supporting communities: • Ability to meet basic needs• Education leading to a good job• Income providing financial security• Ability to gain and maintain healthIn 2020, employees pledged $50,000 for 2021. We are excited to report that $53,795 was donated by Plug employees in 2021.We are a company that values our close relationship with the local communities where we operate. A smaller scale, yet meaningful initiative, is our annual donation of turkeys for the Thanksgiving holiday. In 2021, we provided turkeys to all Latham employees, 140 turkeys to the Latham food bank, and 40 turkeys to the Rotterdam Elks’ food basket distribution event. We appreciate the opportunity to come together and give back to our local community in Latham. In the coming year, we plan to evaluate our corporate giving program and assess additional ways in which Plug can invest in our communities. Plug is engaged with the Albany CEG and Career Jam (Small Business Solutions Center) on a project to work with a handful of regional manufacturers. The intent of the program is to to help promote careers in STEM and Manufacturing to Middle and High School students in an effort to highlight and build on the pipeline for careers in manufacturing, science, technology, engineering and math.