Our Approach Our commitment to sustainability is deeply rooted in our products, mission, core values, and people. We are focused on continuing to lead energy transformation with our hydrogen solutions. At Plug, we recognize that we need to utilize our Earth’s natural resources efficiently to minimize the impact of climate change across the globe. Our end-to-end hydrogen solutions enable a clean economy and maximize value for our customers. We believe our approach will help the economy transition from one that is fossil fuel-driven to one that is better for a livable planet. We know this will only be possible by continuing to prioritize our people and their desire to help fulfill this mission. We hire the most ambitious minds to innovate products and make them more accessible to businesses of all sizes around the globe.We are determined to displace diesel and other fossil fuels with green hydrogen, which we will generate globally, to enable the transition to a low-carbon economy. This transition is taking shape through sustainable solutions and decarbonization of industries such as transportation (aviation and logistics), energy, power, industrial processes, material handling, and data centers. Our ESG efforts at Plug are led by our Director of Investor Relations with the support of teams across the company who contribute the necessary information for this report. Our board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating committee provides oversight for the company’s ESG program. Our goal for 2022 is to continue to develop our ESG governance structure to enhance transparency, consistency, and standardization across the business. In 2020, we conducted a material assessment with the assistance of a third-party to gain an understanding of which ESG topics were “material” or most relevant for us. To gather this data, we engaged priority stakeholder groups to gain an understanding of the topics that are of greatest importance for Plug.  This materiality assessment uncovered the following topics for focus: Managing our environmental impacts: ·Energy management ·Development of low/no carbon solutions ·Product end of life management ·Product efficiency Social: ·Employee health and safety ·Diversity & inclusion ·Community investment Governance: ·Supply chain management ·Board and executive compensation managementIn our first ESG report, we focused on reporting data consistent with our highest priority topics. This year, we are expanding our reporting to include additional topics, such as employee turnover, employee training, and global supply chain monitoring, among others. We continue to mature our data collection and reporting processes and we are learning throughout our journey. As our second year of ESG reporting concludes, we endeavor to continuously improve to meet and exceed the expectations of our stakeholders for transparent disclosure. Over the course of the next year, we expect to implement additional technology solutions and expand internal programs and resources that will advance our ESG efforts. We look forward to providing an update on those efforts in our next report.   Our Commitments We understand that our employees, customers, community partners, suppliers, business partners, and investors care about their carbon footprint and its impact on the environment, driving a shift toward electrification and clean energy sources. Our mission is to build the clean hydrogen economy – green hydrogen sustainability solutions that lower carbon footprints, increase productivity, and lower operating costs. Our commitment to the environment is reflected not only through the impacts of our products in operation but also through the impacts of our manufacturing processes and our products’ end-to-end life cycle. We are committed to resource efficiency, responsible design, materials management, and recycling. Plug is building the global Green Hydrogen Ecosystem and is the only company offering hydrogen production, transportation, stor.age, and zero-emission fuel cell power to meet your data center needs.Product Innovation Value Proposition “The promise of green hydrogen is here today – driven by Plug’s innovation and the vision of our customers.” – Andy Marsh, CEOAt Plug, we are enabling the transition to a green hydrogen economy and aim to displace the use of diesel and other fossil fuels in power, mobility, and industrials. Green Hydrogen Over the past year, our green hydrogen generation targets and projected capacity have significantly increased with the announcement of new developments and product innovation such as our electrolyzers. Our capacity to produce hydrogen is on pace to reach our targets of 500TPD by 2025 in North America and 1,000 TPD globally by 2028. We also aspire to make green hydrogen more affordable. While hydrogen currently costs around $3 to $6 per kilogram, we project that due to the advancements of our electrolyzer technology and build out of our hydrogen network across North America, that cost could be significantly reduced. Our cost reduction road map for green hydrogen generation will not only allow the world to significantly reduce its carbon footprint by replacing fossil fuels, but it will allow for energy independence from countries who are dependent on natural gas from hostile governments. Plug is working very closely with our partners globally to accelerate our efforts in this energy transition in the face of the tragic events we have seen unfold in Ukraine. We continue to be a leader in sustainable innovation. New initiatives will keep us on pace to generate much of our hydrogen from renewable sources. We recently announced initiatives for our planned California and Texas hydrogen facilities, in partnership with the local towns, to build tertiary water treatment plants to produce recycled water at the existing wastewater treatment plant. Plug will also look to use high efficiency reverse-osmosis systems that can concentrate impurities in water which should result in much lower volumes of reject water (5% vs 25% of incoming volume). In these ways, Plug will ensure that the water requirements for our green hydrogen network does not compete with existing water users, especially agriculture. The production of hydrogen is made possible due to the electolyzer, which uses electricity to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. This is just one way in which We are committed to building out a “first of a kind” green hydrogen generation network targeting 500 tons per day (TPD) of green hydrogen production in North America by 2025, and 1,000TPD globally by 2028. This is important to our company and customers, and we are working together to each become sustainable andreduce carbon emissions.we are innovating our operations and reimagining the supply chain to limit emissions. Although hydrogen is a low carbon energy source, we recognize that the transportation of hydrogen through use of conventional internal combustion engine trucks contributes to our greenhouse gas emissions and we are taking steps to reduce and, eventually, eliminate these sources of emissions. This initiative is an important step forward in making our value chain cleaner by addressing the transportation of hydrogen tanks from suppliers to our facilities. Through our suite of hydrogen generation, transportation and fuel cell power for a growing number of applications, we provide a comprehensive end.to-end green hydrogen energy solution. Our vertical integration strategy positions Plug as the global leader in generation, liquefication, distribution and dispensing of hydrogen. Joint ventures and acquisitions have shaped our vertical integration strategy by enabling us to offer end to end hydrogen solutions. Our company’s vertically integrated business model enables us to develop new use cases and applications for hydrogen while focusing on our core product of hydrogen production and fuel cell technology. Hyvia, our joint venture with Renault, is making tremendous strides in the development of hydrogen fuel cell passenger vans and commercial vehicles. We are building large vans and minibuses equipped with 30kW fuel cell engines with ranges of 250km and 300km respectively. Throughout recent years, acquisitions have enabled us to grow from a fuel cell company to a green hydrogen provider that addresses the progression of operations. In 2020, we acquired United Hydrogen, one of the largest privately held producers of hydrogen at the time, and Giner ELX, a global electrolyzer developer with more than four decades of experience. These acquisitions are leading contributors to our increased capacity projections and will enable us to significantly scale up our production of green hydrogen. In 2021, we acquiredFrames Group, which adds engineering, process, and systems integration expertise to Plug.Finally, our recent acquisitions of Applied Cryo Technologies in 2021 and Joule Processing in 2022 adds significant capabilities, expertise, and technologies, including efficient liquefaction, liquid hydrogen delivery network and fleet, liquid hydrogen storage, and hydrogen mobility fueling, which will enable the company to expand its green hydrogen ecosystem and lower the cost of hydrogen infrastructure and logistics networks. The full integration of Applied Cryo Technologies’ and Joule processing’s leading cryogenic equipment design and manufacturing capabilities with Plug’s green hydrogen production and distribution capabilities will help us move closer to achieving our ambitious goal of producing more than 1,000 TPD of green hydrogen globally by 2028. Additionally, in 2021, we broke ground on three new plants, two of which are targeted to produce up to 15 TPD and the third targeting production of 45 TPD of green hydrogen. Our green hydrogen production is projected to scale to 200 TPD of capacity across North America by the end of 2023. By 2024, we are targeting to have approximately four times the number of green hydrogen plants in our network that we plan to have in production by year end 2022. The acquisition of Giner ELX and investment in electrolyzer manufacturing capacity positions us to transition from low-carbon to zero-carbon hydrogen solutions.Plug’s clean energy products deliver a significant value proposition to our customers and the environment, including zero-emission power, robust reliability, improved efficiency, scalability, and lower operational costs. The only byproducts of hydrogen fuel cells are heat and water. They do not produce harmful emissions, which eliminates the costs associated with handling strong toxic materials like battery acid or diesel fuel. Our technology has proven it can withstand tough conditions including freezing temperatures as low as -40 degrees Celsius, and extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, deserts, and winter storms. HFCs are also 40-60% energy efficient, according to the U.S. Department of Energy1, compared to 20% in a typical internal combustion engine car. Our modular products allow for greater reliability and easier serviceability which enables them to operate at scale. Fuel cells save money compared to batteries and internal combustion generators. Reduced downtime due to faster fueling and fewer maintenance and site visits can result in 84% lower operational costs compared to combustion generators for stationary power. This provides a critical benefit of fuel cell longevity, which is especially beneficial for industries such as trucking. 