People - Taking Care of Our Employees People - Taking Care of Our Employees Connecting Employees and Plug’s Mission Plug’s mission revolves around doing something that has never been done before: Displacing fossil fuels with zero emission green hydrogen to help the world achieve the goals set to limit warming to 1.5 degrees celsius. Our employees see our mission to be a leader in decarbonization and promise a better future for their children and grandchildren. The following links highlight how our employees feel about “Green Hydrogen at Work” and how that is connected to our values, purpose, and future goals. The following links highlight how our employees feel about “Green Hydrogen at Work” and how that is connected to our values, purpose, and future goals. Green Hydrogen at Work: Values Green Hydrogen at Work: Purpose Green hydrogen at Work: The Future of Green Hydrogen Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  Plug is here to change the world, and it’s our people that drive change to make the world a better place. We are powered by the collective differences of our employees, customers, and stakeholders, and we value different perspectives to solve complex problems and bring innovative solutions. At Plug, our people come first. We promise to listen and hear inspiration from around the globe, championing inclusivity, respecting each other, and celebrating our differences as we build an environment in which we are all proud to be a part. We are committed to the principles of affirmative action and equal employment opportunity (EEO) for all. We seek to maintain a healthy, safe, and productive workplace free from discrimination or harassment. Plug’s employment practices go beyond just compliance. We do not discriminate in employment practices due to an applicant’s race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, transgender status, age, national origin, disability status, criminal record, or veteran status. Our CEO, Andy Marsh, together with the leadership team, and our DEI Director drive these efforts, which are embedded in our culture and policies. Diversity We embrace the unique characteristics and social identities of our employees. Collectively, these individual differences enhance our culture and company achievements. At Plug, we’re humble but gutsy – we are listeners and learners whose strength comes from our intellectual and social diversity. That diversity powers innovation and inspires our team. Equity All employees have equal opportunity to advance. People are the power of Plug, and we are committed to the investment in our employees. We pledge to provide everyone at Plug with equal opportunity to grow and develop, leveraging the unique skills and differences of their individual background, characteristics, and aspirations. Inclusion We are on a journey to cultivate inclusivity as an organization. At Plug, we are transparent and collaborative, welcoming ideas, thoughts, and questions from everyone. We respect different strengths and viewpoints, understanding that we are stronger together. Perspectives from the collective whole make us better, as we know that we are all part of something bigger than ourselves. Together, we will change the world for the good of the planet and future generations. To support and shape our DEI strategy, we track diversity categories within a dashboard in our human capital software. We currently track and report on the race, age group, and gender of our employees. We believe that our DEI strategy, like any other, should be rooted in data and analytics to measure progress and foster accountability. Our employee turnover rate in 2022 for regular employees is 20.8%. Human Resources (HR) prepares the upcoming year’s Affirmative Action Plan and corresponding goals, which are presented to Plug’s leadership. This process includes collecting updated data and any required EEO and Veterans’ Employment and Training Service (VETS) reporting, compiling the annual data for compliance reporting, refreshing plan data and goals as needed, and finally reviewing and sharing this annually with the executive leadership team. To progress further on our DEI initiatives such as recruitment, talent development, and equitable compensation packages, we have established the following policies which can be found on our Investor Relations website at this link: https://www.ir.plugpower. com/esg/default.aspx Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy Fair Treatment Policies including but not limited to: • Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action Plan • Prohibition of Discrimination Based on Reproductive Health Decision Making • Individuals with Disabilities and Pregnancy-Related Conditions • Prohibition of Discrimination, Sexual and Other Workplace Harassment, and Retaliation Policy and Reporting Procedure. • Prohibition of Retaliation. • Pay Transparency These policies are incorporated in the Employee Handbook. Plug employees are provided with a copy of the handbook and are required to review it and confirm their compliance. We also follow the Fair Treatment Policy for our employees and business partners. For more details on this and our human rights commitments, see the Governance Policies - Business Ethics & Compliance section of this report. We regularly analyze incumbency versus availability data. When the percentage of individuals with disabilities and/or minority status in one or more job groups is less than the utilization goal, we take steps to determine whether and where impediments to EEO exist. Our partnership with Circa, formerly known as LocalJobNetwork, supplements these insights. Circa provides Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) compliance management and recruiting technology solutions to deliver a level, equitable playing field for qualified candidates and to meet our goal of building high-performing, diverse teams. Circa has access to a vast network of 15,000 diverse community partners that can support our inclusive culture and trust-building including with veterans, LGBTQ members, individuals with disabilities, minority groups, women, college students, and skilled trade associations. Partnerships with universities and assistance from diverse employees also shape ourrecruiting efforts. We continue to work with veteran recruitment firms like Orion and are proud to have 277 veterans of the U.S. Armed Services working for Plug, representing an increase of 18.3% from 2021. Additionally, after collecting insights and input from our employees, we will be looking to establish a Women’s Affinity group this year to bring together and empower women in the workplace. Supporting Employee Well-being Competitive Benefits As part of our commitment to our people, Plug offers employees competitive benefits, including health, vision, and dental plans, flexible spending accounts, comprehensive life insurance (including company provided life insurance), and disability coverage. Additionally, employees are offered a vacation and holiday package, a wellness program to promote active and healthy lifestyles, an employee referral program, educational assistance, and volunteer time. In 2022, we also launched a paid parental leave to aid in bonding time for new parents. 92.9% of our employees participate in our comprehensive 401(k) package that includes a 401(k)-retirement savings plan, which offers up to a 5% match in Plug stock. To encourage savings, we auto-enroll all employees in the plan after 60 days of employment. Our portfolio reflects our values with increased priority given to socially responsible investing—the plan’s diversified investment options include two socially responsible funds. At Plug, we believe employee well-being is crucial to success — when employees feel their best, they perform their best. We are pleased to offer a comprehensive wellness program that is designed to promote long-term healthy, active lifestyles. Employees enrolled in our medical insurance plan can earn a gift card up to $500 by completing qualifying wellness activities. These activities span fitness challenges and preventative care measures with incentives along the way. Additionally, our Fitness Reimbursement Program provides up to $1,200 per year to accommodate employees’ wellness activities. Even further, Plug management continues to maintain regular and meaningful full-company communication through all-employee meetings, where CEO Andy Marsh, and his extended team, address relevant safety and business topics. This began as a response to COVID-19 remote-working mandates and continues to allow our global employees the opportunity to better understand organizational successes, growth, and change. There is always a Q&A at the end of every meeting where employees are encouraged to ask questions regarding any topic. This meeting is a notable example of our culture given the transparency and open communication. Employee Engagement We believe that transparency plays a key role in engaging and energizing our workforce. Our CEO conducts weekly town hall meetings with our employees to share updates on the company’s initiatives and answer any questions. Additionally, our employees meet with their leaders at least quarterly to discuss their job performance and contribution to strategic business objectives, as well as their professional development goals. Where possible, we have adopted remote and hybrid work arrangements which offer many benefits for our employees and company, including cost savings and flexibility. We conduct regular employee engagement surveys to measure progress and satisfaction with a range of initiatives. In our most recent survey (August 2022), Plug achieved a 78 Engagement Index – employees indicated they would recommend Plug as a great place to work and they are happy working at Plug. The insights from the most recent survey allowed us to review employee feedback at each function and Business Unit level to drive impactful action. Plug’s top strengths are prospects, purpose, and authenticity. Employees indicated they are excited about Plug’s future; they believe they are doing meaningful work at Plug and feel comfortable being themselves at work. Employee Health and Safety The health and safety of our employees is an important focus at Plug, and we strive to continuously reduce injuries. We demonstrate our commitment to safety while leading our organization through the global pandemic, effectively deploying enhanced safety measures and encouraging and making available vaccinations. In 2022, Plug’s Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) for work-related injuries or illnesses was 4.1[CM1] and the fatality rate was zero. In 2022, Plug hired a Vice President of Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) and expanded our global EHS organization by hiring a Senior Director of Sustainability & Environment, a Senior Director of EHS – Europe, a Director of EHS - North America and an Occupational Health Nurse. Having a qualified EHS Leadership team in place along with other experienced EHS professionals enables Plug to drive a culture of safety excellence and create an environment where our team is accountable for their own safety and the safety of others. While it is important to have EHS leadership and technical support, leaders are critical to support an engaged safety culture. Because of that, all managers are expected to regularly engage with their employees on proper work practices, monthly safety training, and investigation of safety events. Here are some ways our various locations have helped us achieve a safer work environment. North America Latham, N.Y. – We have an onsite nurse who provides medical case management, wellness campaigns and acts as a trusted resource. Currently licensed in 27 states with a goal to be licensed in all 48 contiguous U.S. states by Q1 2023, the nurse has had more than 100 employees visit the clinic for work related and personal concerns Slingerlands, N.Y. - Plug’s new Vista Technology Park has state-of-the art safety controls to minimize and reduce risk in operations. The teams collaborated using lean methodology to add automation and continuous improvement to the manufacturing processes. U.S. & Canada – Development of an EHS contractor safety program to support the Energy Solutions division and H2 projects allows us to set expectations and have clear roles, responsibilities and programs defined to meet or exceed compliance where contractors are utilized on our projects.  Plug technicians provide support at customer locations around the world, and just as we would expect our third party employees to demonstrate safe work practices and maintain a safe environment, we too hold ourselves to those standards while working at customer locations. In 2022, our technicians were in 709 total sites connected across two safety qualification platforms in the U.S., Canada and E.U. which allows Plug to do business at our customer locations around the world demonstrating compliance to EHS customer requirements. Europe Netherlands -In late 2021 Plug acquired Frames Group based out of the Netherlands (now Plug Safety Services (PSS)). Coming from the oil and gas industry, PSS has in place ISO 9001, 14001 and 45001 certifications. Their process safety and engineering track record have allowed Plug to develop electrolysis within the E.U. meeting all stringent requirements. As such this will enhance our philosophies of: Keeping our employees safe: Offer a well-managed safe workplace playbook with current procedures to ensure workplace health and safety, productivity and efficiency. Continued improvement in building a resilient organization: Continually develop and communicate processes to adapt and respond to evolving safe working requirements. • Avoid costly shutdowns: Minimize the potential for employees to transmit illnesses leading to an operational shutdown with well documented and auditable procedures. • Drive operational excellence: Easily create and implement operating procedure changes to continually improve workplace performance. Global This year, a minimum Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Policy was communicated to all Plug employees for consistency amongst facilities. An EHS software management system was selected and deployed globally that is used to report, notify and track incident investigations including near misses. We require employees to report any safety events, whether there is an actual injury or a near.miss, to their supervisor immediately and conduct an investigation. We analyze each event to identify root causes and take necessary corrective measures so that we may learn from the incident and prevent similar occurrences in the future. This is all done through the EHS software management system which includes past due corrective action escalation to leaders. Also included in this tool are inspections, hazard identification, behavior observations, job safety analysis and trending reports. A global database of all Plug locations worldwide has been established which allows us to create a risk profile based on processes, permits, emerging regulations and compliance reporting.  Having this accurate data provides EHS and other decision-makers the ability to determine resources needed to manage risk and ensure compliance to the company. A global project was initiated to select a qualified vendor to develop Plug Power-branded safety data sheets (SDS) for our products that are manufactured and shipped worldwide. As countries adopt the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) or revise their SDS or label requirements, standard templates are revised accordingly, and documents are based on the revised standard document template for that country. This project considers all countries and languages where we do business or have the need to create documents for our products. Experts in country-specific regulations, shipping and labeling classifications are part of the team to help support the creation of a safety data sheet. A few examples of the types of SDSs created are “Hydrogen – compressed gas,” “Hydrogen – refrigerated liquid,” “MEA- Fuel Cell (membrane electrode assembly “ and “MEA – Electrolyzer.” The purchase of a learning management system with a suite of 400+ EHS courses, has allowed for a one-stop location where employees can access all available environmental, health, and safety training in a multitude of languages. Translated materials have helped drive a better understanding of the materials and improved the quality of data accrued from non-English speaking locations. Training that is both general and tailored to each employee category is distributed through Workday Learning. Workday Learning is a centralized system that hosts virtual learning programs and allows Plug HR and employees to view completed and outstanding requirements. Our EHS team oversees this program atahigh-level and meets monthly while site-specific safety committees, composed of employees from a mix of employee categories and business divisions, ensure requirements are met at each of our facilities. 