Governance Board of Directors Plug’s business is conducted under the oversight of our Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors” or “Board”). The primary responsibility of the Board is to oversee and review senior management’s business and operations performance. The number of directors of the Company is currently fixed at twelve (12) and the Board currently consists of twelve (12) members. The Board is divided into three (3) classes with four (4) directors in Class I, four (4) directors in Class II, and four (4) directors in Class III. Directors in Classes I, II, and III serve for three-year terms with one class of directors being elected by the Company’s stockholders at each Annual Meeting of Stockholders.In 2021, Plug added Kimberly Harriman and Kyungyeol Song, both with extensiveexperience in the energy sector, to the Board. In 2022, Plug added Jean A. Bua and Kavita Mahtani who bring leadership in key areas, such as M&A strategy implementation, financial planning and analysis, global financial operations, and compliance and who will join Plug’s audit committee, with Ms. Bua serving as the committee chair. Plug recognizes and values inclusive leadership. We are immensely proud that our Board of Directors is currently comprised of 34% women. Increasing the diversity of our governing bodies, senior leadership team, and workforce is one of Plug’s top priorities.The positions of Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chairman of the Board (the “Chairman of the Board” or “Chairman”) are currently separated, with Andrew J. Marsh serving as our CEO since 2008 and George C. McNamee serving as Chairman since 1997. Separating these positions allows our CEO to focus on the Company’s day-to-day business operations, while allowing the Chairman to lead the Board in its fundamental role of providing advice to an independent oversight of management. The Board recognizes the time, effort, and energy that the CEO is required to devote to his position in the current business environment as well as the Chairman’s required commitments. While our by-laws and corporate governance guidelines do not require that our CEO and Chairman position be separate, the Board believes that our current leadership structure is appropriate because it provides an effective balance between independent leadership, management oversight, and strategy development. If the position of Chairman is vacant, or if he or she is absent, the CEO will preside, when present, at meetings of stockholders and the Board until such time as the vacant position of Chairman is filled or Chairman becomes available.Committees of the Board of Directors The Board has established three (3) standing committees to exercise oversight and provide guidance related to risks within the purview of each.• The Audit Committee oversees risks related to accounting matters, financial reporting, and legal and regulatory compliance oversees the accounting and financial reporting processes and audits of the financial statements, and has responsibility for evaluation and oversight of qualifications, independence and performance of the independent auditors.• The Compensation Committee oversees risks related to compensation matters evaluates compensation policies, plans, and programs, and has responsibility for assessment of executive officers and management team.• The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee oversees risks related to management and Board succession planning maintains through annual review and reassessment the Corporate Governance Guidelines, evaluates the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, and has primary oversight responsibility for our ESG program as outlined in the committee’s charter.The Board plays a central role in overseeing and evaluating risk-management procedures and protocols Cultural Competencies and Code of Conduct Plug is a loyal, ethical, people-first company for employees, customers, shareholders, and the community, working together to build the clean hydrogen economy. We are committed to excellence, providing our customers with the ability to seamlessly adopt end-to-end fuel cell and hydrogen solutions to power, fuel, and provide service for their application needs, regardless of market.The Code of Conduct is expected to be upheld by non-employee members of the Board of Directors, as well as contractors, vendors, suppliers, consultants, and other parties doing business with Plug. It is the responsibility of all members of the organization to remain familiar with the content of the Code of Conduct as may be updated from time to time and to act in a manner compliant with our policy expectations. Plug’s Code of Conduct is framed around our established cultural values: innovate, communicate, act humble but gutsy, collaborate, respect, and be true. These are intended to help lead our business to prosperity, but more importantly, to ensure pride in the means of attaining success.whereas management is responsible for identifying and managing exposure to risk on a day-to-day basis in accordance with the Board’s Delegation of Authority Policy. The Board receives periodic reports from each of the three (3) standing committees and any ad-hoc committees that may be established from time to time to address discreet matters, as well as regular reports from senior management on areas of material risk to the Company, including operational, financial, reputational, legal, regulatory, and strategic risks. The Board and all committees regularly engage with management on major risk exposures, their potential impact on the Company, and the steps we take to manage them. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and the General Counsel report to the Board regarding ongoing risk management activities at the quarterly Board meetings and may submit additional reports, as needed. Additionally, risk management is a standing agenda item for the quarterly Audit Committeemeetings. For additional information on our Board of Directors and company governance, please refer to our 2021 Proxy Statement on the Investor Relations section of our website: Click here for the 2021 proxy statement• Innovate – Create new ideas, approaches and technologies that change the world. Be insatiably curious, confident -learn & adapt quickly. Constantly strive to exceed expectations.• Communicate – Listen and seek to understand. Hear inspiration and seek expertise from across the globe. Communicate openly and honestly, be transparent.  • Humble but Gutsy – Embrace new opportunities with a fearless, action-oriented perspective. Learn and iterate. Truly game-changing ideas are rarely safe.• Collaborate – Be inclusive and involve the right people. Let go where appropriate and trust your team members to do their part.• Respect – respect each other and individual unique experiences and expertise. Treat everyone with dignity, compassion, and professionalism.• True – Act with integrity. Be helpful. Do the right thing.To read the full Code of Conduct, please see the Investor Relations (Governance) section of our website.International Human Rights Policy Plug recognizes the importance of human rights and our responsibility to implement and maintain sustainable business practices. Therefore, Plug’s policy defines our commitment to understand, manage, and encourage responsible, honest, and ethical behavior throughout our operations. Additionally, the policy outlines our intent to embrace and comply with several recognized international human rights standards, including those outlined by the International Bill of Human Rights (including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights) and the Fundamental International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, among others, and defines a minimum standard across all of our operations. However, where applicable law or regulations require a higher standard or are inconsistent with this policy, the applicable law or regulations will govern. All employees and third-party business partners through whom we conduct business are required to cooperate fully, accurately, and promptly. See the Responsible Supply Chain section of this report for further details on how our International Human Rights Policy relates to our Supplier Code of Conduct. Furthermore, among other things, the policy makes it clear that:Plug is committed to respecting the rights of children and the elimination of child labor. Plug ensures that all employment is voluntary and will not engage in, support, or condone any form of forced, bonded, or compulsory labor. Plug recognizes the importance of an open dialogue between leadership and employees and their representatives (including trade and labor unions and employee forums). Plug respects the cultures, customs, values, and laws of the communities in which we operate; Plug commits to compliance with applicable law in every country and jurisdiction in which we operate. Plug considers human rights when making decisions on our locations of operations; Plug integrates human rights criteria into the screening contracts with third parties; and Plug forbids retaliation which includes any conduct, whether or not workplace or employment-related, directed at someone because they opposed a practice in violation of this policy, made or encouraged another individual to make a good faith report, or participated in an investigation of such, which might deter a reasonable individual from making or supporting a report of a violation of this policy. Fair Treatment Policy Plug’s Fair Treatment Policy reflects our company’s HR and human rights commitments. The policy highlights our social responsibility expectations from business partners. Business partners include suppliers and supplier’s manufacturing facilities, including all subcontracting, packaging, and distribution facilities. The Fair Treatment Policy applies to all individuals working with and/or performing services for Plug, including our employees, directors, contractors, and consultants. The policy includes a link for anonymous Bribery and Anti-corruption Our policies for employees and business partners strictly prohibit all forms of bribery and corruption, whether commercial or governmental. For employees, these policies are incorporated into the Employee Handbook and each must read and reaffirm compliance with them, annually. Further, our mandated trainings include modules on vigilance with regards to eliminating bribery and corruption. Considering Plug’s international Responsible Tax As Plug grows, we remain vigilant in our compliance with respect to the complex taxation rules and practices. Plug files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to examination by taxing authorities. We endeavor reports and a hot line to report harassment violations to the appropriate supervisor, senior manager, or HR team member. Plug’s Fair Treatment Policy ensures ethical behavior and respect for our stakeholders’ human rights, including the prohibition of discrimination, child labor, human trafficking, and slavery practice throughout our business and supply chain partnerships. We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which informs our efforts.expansion, the Board has requested a more directive and formal training program which we are currently working to develop. For business partners, these policies are included below in the Responsible Supply Chain section of this report and are incorporated in our criteria used by the EcoVadis software.to treat our taxation obligations responsibly and in a transparent manner. We utilize outside expertise for the development of our tax strategies and to assist us in remaining current on tax law and analyzing our tax risk. Responsible Supply Chain We are committed to conducting business ethically and in compliance with the law. We expect our business partners, contractors, vendors, suppliers, and any entity we do business with to obey and comply with laws and regulations and any agreed upon contract. Accordingly, Plug requests our suppliers adhere to this Supplier Code of Code which provides guidance for doing business with Plug.Our Supply Chain at Plug consists of two separate channels: the first channel is our vertical supply chain through our GenKey solutions and the second is our third-party supply chain where we deliver goods and services by outside vendors. The vertically integrated GenKey solution ties together all critical elements to power, fuel, and provide service to customers. We are now leveraging its know-how, modular product architecture and foundational customers to rapidly expand into other key markets including zero-emission.road vehicles, robotics, and data centers.We are continuing to improve on our reporting process to help us execute on our commitments to the development of the green hydrogen economy. We are in the process of developing robust and repeatable processes to measure our progress and accurately report it. We have implemented new technologies in 2021 that will help us achieve this, if any of our suppliers are flagged for their mistreatment in one of these areas, we will work to remedy the situation so that our entire end-to-end supply chain operations are true to our commitment to build the green hydrogen economy in a responsible way. To manage the environmental and social elements of our vendors we are now leveraging a software called EcoVadis. EcoVadis is a provider of business sustainability ratings, creating a global network of more than 75,000 rated companies. Once fully implemented in 2022 we expect that EcoVadis will enhance our visibility into the environmental and societal impacts of our vendors across criticalthemes: environment, labor and human rights, ethics, and sustainable procurement. EcoVadis looks within organizations to assess risks including critical materials, conflict materials, ethical business practices, and environmental impacts. Using this tool, we will create scorecards to assess and engage with our suppliers. We expect to have additional information regarding our responsible supply chain in our next reporting cycle.  We continually work to improve our operations and expect our business partners to promote ethical and law-abiding principles throughout their supply chain as outlined below.• Freely Chosen Employment: Suppliers shall not use force, bonded or indentured labor. Suppliers shall not support, promote, or engage in the practice of slavery or human trafficking.• Child Labor and Young Workers: Suppliers shall not illegally use child labor. The employment of workers below the age of majority as defined and where permitted by applicable local law shall only occur as per the parameters established under such applicable laws and in non-hazardous work conditions.• Freedom of Association: Suppliers shall respect the rights of workers, as set forth in local laws, to associate freely, join or not join labor unions or workers’ councils and to seek representation.• Wages, Benefits and Working Hours: Suppliers shall pay workers according to applicable wage laws, including minimum wagers, overtime hours and mandated benefits. Work hours shall be in compliance with applicable laws.• Anti-Corruption and Business Integrity: All forms of corruption are prohibited. Suppliers shall not offer, pay, promise, or accept bribes or participate in other illegal inducements in business or government relationships.• Fair Competition: Suppliers shall conduct their business consistent with applicable competition laws.• Conflicts of Interest: Suppliers shall not engage in any activity with an employee of Plug which could create a conflict of interest.• Environmental Health and Safety (EHS): Suppliers shall comply with all applicable EHS laws and regulations. All required EHS permits, licenses and registrations shall be obtained and their operations and reporting requirements restrictions followed.• Business Continuity: Suppliers shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations.• Legal Requirements: Suppliers shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations.• Commitment and Accountability: Suppliers are encouraged fulfill the requirements described in this Supplier Code by allocating appropriate resources, including but not limited to training their employees on the expectations set forth in this Supplier Code.• Compliance Assessment: Suppliers are expected to monitor compliance with this Supplier Code Plug reserves the right to assess suppliers’ compliance with this Supplier Code through use of Plug personnel or third parties.Conclusion 2021 was a year of innovation and rapid expansion at Plug as we accelerated our leadership in the green hydrogen economy. While we believe that our innovation and our products positively contribute to the reduction of emissions and promote sustainable operations with our customers, and we are determined to reduce our own impact on our planet. As always, our commitment to operating as a responsible and ethical business guides all of our actions. As we grow, we are ever mindful that our foundation is our people and the support of the communities where we live and operate. Our goal for 2022 is to evolve our ESG programmatic governance to keep pace with the tremendous growth our company has seen over the last year. Our desire to continuously improve, understand, and manage our ESG impacts is reflected in our implementation of new technology solutions and new roles established within the company which we expect will make our reporting process more efficient. Concluding our second ESG reporting cycle has provided us with the opportunity to assess our progress, learn from our efforts, and plan for next year. We look forward to building on our accomplishments in 2022 and beyond. RR-FC-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed Data not available as of 12-17 (2) Percentage grid electricity Data not available as of 12-17 (3) Percentage renewable Data not available as of 12-17 Workforce Health and SafetyRR-FC-320a.1RR-FC-320a.2 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 2018: 2.48 2019: 0.76 2020: 1.05 2021: 1.3 (2) Fatality rate 2018: 0 2019: 0 2020: 0 2021: 0 Description of efforts to assess monitor, and reduce exposure or workforce to human health hazards When an incident occurs, the situation is assessed by the facility manager. If needed, medical attention is addressed. The facility manager completes the Safety Even Form and sends it to the EHS manager via email. Once these steps are complete, a root cause and event analysis is performed to avoid any incidents in the future. For more information, please see People section page 18. Product EfficiencyRR-FC-410a.2Missing without explanation:RR-FC0410a.1 and 3 – 5. Average energy efficiency of fuel cells as(1) electrical efficiency Plug considers this data to be sensitive information and therefore, has currently elected to omit the disclosure (2) thermal efficiency, by product application and technology type Plug considers this data to be sensitive information and therefore, has currently elected to omit the disclosure Product end-of-life managementRR-FC-410b.1 Percentage of products sold that are recyclable or reusable Data not available as of 12-17 RR-FC-410b.2 Weight of end-of-life material recov.ered, percentage recycled Data not available as of 12-17 RR-FC-410b.3 Description of approach to manage use, reclamation, and disposal of hazardous materials The only hazardous materials Plug produces are Lithium Ion and Coolant. The Lithium Ion is sold to a vendor and the Coolant XX. See Environment section page 14 Material SourcingRR-FC-440a.1 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials Critical materials are graphite, silicon, semi-conductor chips, and resin, Plug manages the risks asso.ciated with these materials by the XX. See Governance section page 26. Activity MetricsRR-FC-000.A Number of units sold Data not available as of 12-17 RR-FC.000.B Total storage capacity of batteries sold Data not available as of 12-17 RR-FC-000.C Total energy production capacity of fuel cells sold Data not available as of 12-17 Community InvestmentManagement defined Community Investment Plug employees donated $53,795to United Way as of November 15, 2021. For more details on our en.gagement with local communities, see People section page 18.  Information on Employees and Other WorkersGRI 401-1 Employee turnover (%) XX GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employ.ees skills and transition assisstance programs Plug makes both in-person and vir.tual training available to employees. For career development, Plug fol.lows a conversation-based approach where employees speak to man.agement and leadership to discuss career goals and promotions. See People section page 18. GRI 2-7 Temporary workers (%) XX 
About This Report This report, published May 2, 2022, speaks as of the date it is published. All information, data, opinions and activities contained in this report are subject to change without notice. The contents of this report were developed based on feedback from our internal and external stakeholders and metrics used by corporate responsibility and sustainability rating providers. The non-financial metrics and quantitative data contained in this report are not based on generally accepted accounting principles and have not been audited. Neither Plug Power Inc. nor any of its affiliates assume any responsibility or obligation to update or revise any such information, data, opinions or activities, without regard to whether any of these are affected by the results of new information, future events or otherwise. This report does not, and is not intended to, create any relationship, rights or obligations, legal or otherwise, and you should not rely upon this report to do so.The inclusion of information and data in this report is not an indication that such information or data or the subject matter of such information or data is material to Plug Power Inc. for purposes of applicable securities laws or otherwise. The principles used to determine whether to include information or data in this report do not correspond to the principles of materiality contained in the federal securities laws, the concept of materiality used to determine whether disclosures are required to be made in filings with the SEC, or principles applicable to the inclusion of information in financial statements.Our goals regarding our corporate responsibility and ESG initiativesare aspirations. They are not guarantees or promises that we will meet all or any of our goals. Any statisticsand metrics regarding our corporate responsibility and ESG activities are estimates and may be based on assumptions ordeveloping standards.No part of this report constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities of Plug Power Inc. or any other entity. This report is not intended to be relied upon as advice to investors or potential investors and does not take into account the investment objectives, tax considerations, or financial situation or needs of any investor. This report and the information contained in this report are not incorporated by reference into and are not a part of any offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities of Plug Power Inc. pursuant to any offering registered under or any offering exempt from the Securities Act of 1933. All investors should consider such factors in consultation with financial, tax and legal advisors of their choosing when deciding if aninvestment is appropriate.. Corporate Headquarters968 Albany Shaker Rd,Latham, NY 12110518.782.4004