GOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCEGovernanceTown hall at headquartersHOUSTON, TX4Our principles of governance and ethics 
serve as the foundation of every level 
and aspect of our organization.5PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCEPhillips 66 has a diverse portfolio of assets in our Midstream, Chemicals, Refining, and Marketing and Specialties businesses. Our company’s role is to make, process, transport, store and market fuels and essential products worldwide. At Phillips 66, we provide energy that improves lives and meets the world’s growing energy needs.  Corporate StrategySustainability is integral to our corporate strategy and designed to ensure a resilient portfolio. Our strategy is clear and consistent: operating excellence, growth, returns, distributions and being a high-performing organization. This strategy ensures a sustainable, viable business and creates long-term shareholder value.Board and Managerial Oversight and GovernanceOur governance and ethics are the foundation at every level and aspect of our organization. Rigorous, consistent corporate governance practices contribute positively to shareholder value.Our board of directors and executive leadership team are committed to ethical business practices premised on our company values.Our board regularly reviews evolving corporate governance best practices, changing regulatory requirements and feedback from shareholders and makes changes it believes are in the best interest of Phillips 66 and its shareholders.The Nomination and Governance Committee owns board composition and succession planning. The board is committed to enhancing visible diversity and seeking candidates with diverse backgrounds and perspectives who possess the collaborative spirit, character, skills, experiences and expertise required for oversight of the execution of the company’s strategy, risk management and operational objectives.  Diversity is considered broadly and can be represented in both visible and less-visible characteristics such as race, ethnicity, national origin, age, gender and sexual orientation. The public policy committee amended its name and is now the Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC). It also revised its charter to include the review of the company’s sustainability program and initiatives to further emphasize oversight of such matters.The Audit and Finance Committee monitors our enterprisewide risk management program and our controls, compliance and ethics.The Human Resources and Compensation Committee (HRCC) determines the compensation of our executive leadership team and provides oversight of our human capital management strategy, including workplace culture, inclusion and diversity, and other talent management programs and initiatives, including succession planning for senior officers.The company and board governing documents lay out the roles and responsibilities of the board and its committees. In addition, the talent and composition 
of our board of directors augment this governance.THE ENERGY TRANSITION As a part of the global energy transition, we invest in technology to improve our assets, products and processes to be more efficient and capitalize on emerging opportunities as the energy market transforms. That includes investment in alternative energy. We are committed to renewables, which the Energy Information Administration predicts will make up 28% of global energy consumption by 2050. Alternative energy can be seen globally across the Phillips 66 value chain in our investments in the Rodeo Renewed project in California, renewable fuel production at the Humber Refinery in the United Kingdom, and our participation in Humber Zero and the long-term green hydrogen project Gigastack.In January 2021, we announced the creation of our Emerging Energy group to focus on commercializing and implementing emerging energy technology within Phillips 66 operations and assets. Chairman and CEO Greg Garland told investors, “The ultimate goal is to have an Emerging Energy business that will stand beside our Midstream, our Chemical, our Refining, and our Marketing and Specialties businesses.” This report will highlight early initiatives of the Emerging Energy group.RENEWABLE DIESEL AND ALTERNATIVE FUELSPhillips 66 is prioritizing renewable fuel projects that leverage existing infrastructure. Waste fats, recycled cooking oils and other renewable feedstocks will be processed into transportation fuels. We currently produce renewable diesel from vegetable oil at our Rodeo Refinery in San Francisco and from used cooking oil at our Humber Refinery in the United Kingdom. Future plans include a complete conversion at Rodeo to process waste fats, recycled cooking oils and other renewable feedstocks, and an expansion at Humber to process more waste oil. In 2021, we announced we were securing feedstock for our growing portfolio of renewable fuels projects by investing in Shell Rock Soy Processing, a new soybean-processing plant in Iowa. Additionally, the company supports renewable diesel production in Nevada with Ryze Renewables. In California, our Richmond and Sacramento terminals have blended up to 20% biodiesel since 2018. In 2020, we added biodiesel blending to our Colton Terminal. Delivery of renewable diesel to our Richmond Terminal is part of our continued actions to meet the changing standards in the state.We also intend to convert diesel at our branded sites in California to 76 renewable diesel. Board of Directors 89%44%independentwomen6Humber Refinery used cooking oil (UCO) unit SOUTH KILLINGHOLME, UKCommitment to a Lower-Carbon Future Our Humber Refinery has been producing renewable fuels since 2018.In fact, it was the first U.K. refinery to convert waste oil into road fuel. In 2020, we added to Humber’s growing renewables infrastructure with a processing unit that converts used cooking oil into lower-carbon intensity fuel.The new used cooking oil (UCO) unit is expected to expand the refinery’s renewable fuel capacity to 5,000 barrels per day (BPD) by 2024.The Humber Refinery is also a leader in the production of specialty coke for EV batteries, and participates in Gigastack, a separate, long-term project to generate “green hydrogen,” using electricity from offshore wind to electrolyze water. Hydrogen is a low-emission fuel capable of powering transportation and heavy industry, including multiple processes within refining. The project is in partnership with electrolyzer manufacturer ITM, offshore wind farm operator Ørsted and consultancy Element Energy. The second phase of Gigastack will involve a front-end engineering design study on a 100 MW electrolyzer system, which would use electricity to split water into oxygen and hydrogen gas, feeding the latter to the Humber Refinery to lower the sulfur content of diesel fuel. While this project is not yet commercially viable, it is an opportunity to develop a new renewable hydrogen market where the only feedstocks are water and renewable power.Because the refinery is in the region that generates approximately 40% of the U.K.’s industrial emissions, it has a significant role in the country’s commitment to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 and the Humber Zero project. Humber Zero combines carbon capture and storage technology with hydrogen production to decarbonize the Immingham industrial cluster, reduce emissions, preserve jobs and support growth in the businesses that make Humber a leading industrial hub.7OPERATING EXCELLENCEENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
PERFORMANCE DATAGOVERNANCEWEB-EXCLUSIVEMoving Forward With Hydrogen Fuel A Focus on Sustainability 
and Strategy at Rodeo In August 2020, we announced plans to convert the Rodeo Refinery into one of the world’s largest renewable fuel facilities. We currently sell renewable diesel out of a number of California locations, and Rodeo Renewed supports the growing demand for lower-carbon products and 
California’s environmental goals. In April 2021, the refinery completed a hydrotreater conversion for renewables processing, which started renewable diesel production. The implementation of the Rodeo Renewed project and complete facility conversion is scheduled for early 2024.  The project will reconfigure the refinery to produce initially more than 800 million gallons per year of renewable diesel, renewable gasoline and sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) from used cooking oil, fats, greases and vegetable oils. The conversion is expected to significantly reduce criteria pollutant emissions, contributing to cleaner air in the San Francisco Bay Area. The refinery is also pursuing additional projects such as carbon capture to reduce further greenhouse gas emissions and solar power to run its processes. The facility’s focus on energy efficiency was recognized in early 2020 when it became the first crude oil refinery in California to earn an Environmental Protection Agency ENERGY STAR® certification for superior energy efficiency. 800+ milliongallons per year 
projected production
of renewable diesel, renewable gasoline and sustainable aviation fuelAdvancing Sustainable Aviation FuelPhillips 66 and Southwest Airlines signed a memorandum of understanding in 2021 to advance the commercialization of sustainable aviation fuel.  SAF is a lower-carbon intensity fuel that can be produced from renewable feedstocks such as waste oils, fats, greases and vegetable oils.Phillips 66 is a major U.S. refiner and supplier of jet fuel and aviation gasoline. The memorandum of understanding aims to leverage our expertise in refining, distribution and technical commercialization of transportation fuels and our portfolio of renewable energy projects with the airline’s interest in SAF.SAFSustainable aviation fuel is
a drop-in fuel .— one that works in existing aircraft engines and airport fuel infrastructure.San Francisco Refinery seasonal storage tanksRODEO, CA9ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCEGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Ethics and GovernanceWritten policies and auditing programs create strong governance throughout the company and our supply chain. Key policies and governing documents, including board governance documents and charters, are publicly available on our website. These, and many other written procedures and controls, set the standards that guide our actions and ensure the highest levels of responsibility, integrity and legal compliance across our businesses.ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCTSafety, honor and commitment are our values. 
At Phillips 66, we do not compromise our integrity. We recognize that questions can arise in today’s increasingly complex global business environment. Therefore, our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Code of Ethics) describes our operating guidelines and ties our company’s values to the way we 
make decisions.Our company policies, programs and practices ensure ethical business and good governance. We had 14,300 employees as of Dec. 31, 2020, and we expect every one of them to work for the greater good and act with integrity, following our Code of Ethics. It applies to all of our directors, officers and employees. All employees participate in annual training, during which they must attest that they will comply with the Code of Ethics. Phillips 66’s principal executive officer and senior financial officers adhere to the Code of Ethics and a supplemental Code of Ethics for the Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers. The expectations are central to our performance management.The code covers topics including, but not limited to, human rights, conflicts of interest, discrimination, harassment, confidentiality, anti-bribery, anti-boycott, employee grievances, insider trading, competition and fair dealing. It encapsulates the company’s human rights position and prohibits human trafficking and forced labor, consistent with international norms. We recognize and respect the dignity of all human beings. We believe business has a role in promoting respect for human rights throughout the world. We embrace the right of all people to live their lives free from social, political or economic discrimination or abuse. Our Position on Human Rights is informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We don’t use corporal punishment, and where we provide housing for our employees, we ensure living conditions are safe and sanitary. BUSINESS PARTNERS, SUPPLY CHAIN AND SOCIAL SUPPLIER STANDARDSIn keeping with our core value of honor, we choose business partners objectively and fairly, and we act with honesty in all business dealings. Business partners and suppliers are expected to comply with contractual obligations and the expectations laid out in our Business Partner Principles of Conduct. These principles require our suppliers to work with our employees in a manner consistent with our values and our Code of Ethics. Priorities include fair wages, nondiscrimination, no human trafficking, anti-bribery, cybersecurity and meeting all health, safety and environmental laws.Our procurement policy governs our supply chain activities. We employ a set of formal processes to consistently vet suppliers for safety performance to protect people, ensure adherence to industry standard frameworks for quality and monitor financial stability. We maintain ongoing partnerships with our suppliers to ensure the continued safety, quality and sustainable delivery of goods and services to our operations. In addition, where appropriate, we engage with our suppliers to sustainably enhance our operating performance through innovative products and the execution of continuous improvement opportunities. Understanding and monitoring the work conducted by our suppliers and business partners is integral to efficient and robust business operations, sustainability and respect for human rights. We audit suppliers’ manufacturing facilities, critical suppliers and contracts within our supply chain to ensure adherence to policy. Our suppliers are expected to certify that the materials incorporated into products manufactured for Phillips 66 comply with all laws, including those pertaining to human rights, slavery and human trafficking. By complying with laws where we do business, Phillips 66 supply chain standards meet minimum wage, child labor, right to associate or bargain collectively, and working hours requirements. The products manufactured in our refineries and developed along the supply chain significantly contribute to strengthening the economies in our communities, and we intend to maintain this position.SUPPLIER DIVERSITYIn all our operations, Phillips 66 seeks to partner with diverse businesses and is committed to providing equal and impartial opportunities. This approach stimulates local economic development and enhances our long-term business performance by improving supplier responsiveness, competition and sustainability. We actively participate in organizations that support the development of diverse businesses in the United States. We are corporate members of the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council.WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAMSEmployees, suppliers and customers are empowered to raise questions or concerns about our operations and business practices without fear of retaliation. They are expected to report behaviors that they believe violate the company Code of Ethics. Various state and federal laws provide legal protection to certain types of whistleblowers. Additionally, Phillips 66 has a policy of non-retaliation, which helps foster an ethical workplace and a culture of integrity.The Global Ethics Office HelpLine offers confidential third-party operated telephone and web-based options. Both are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year and staffed by representatives fluent in many languages. Employees, contractors, suppliers and community members can access the HelpLine toll-free from any location around the world, or they can file a report online. People are encouraged to identify themselves, but they may choose to remain anonymous.One indicator of confidence in the independence and integrity of our ethics program is the percentage of HelpLine visitors who felt comfortable identifying themselves. Of the 191 HelpLine reports in 2020, 60% were made by someone who provided their name. Reports are entered directly onto an independent, secure server and not traced. Reports are shared only with the specific people designated to handle the issue.Our chief compliance officer leads our Global Compliance and Ethics Office, and all personnel in that office are trained on investigating potential violations. Phillips 66 Human Resources (HR) professionals are also trained to assist or conduct investigations. All potential violations reported through the HelpLine, in addition to online reports and in-person accounts of a possible violation of our Code of Ethics or other company policies, are brought to the Global Compliance and Ethics Office and handled through our reporting process. All allegations are investigated, and appropriate action is taken based on the findings. Issues involving a violation of regulation, law or the Code of Ethics are reported to the board of directors’ Audit and Finance Committee.We expect every one 
of our employees to work for the greater good and act with integrity, following our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct.Global Ethics Toll-free HelpLine855-318-5390 View a list of our key policies and governing documents here.GOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCEFinancial PerformanceAs part of the nation’s critical infrastructure, we maintained our operations in 2020 and did not furlough employees. We funded our sustaining capital programs, returned $2 billion to shareholders and reduced expenses wherever possible. We made it through a challenging economic landscape and safely provided reliable, abundant, accessible and affordable energy.We are an essential part of feeding, clothing and caring for the world’s growing population and moving its commerce. In addition to transportation fuels, we make the raw materials used to create health care products and medical devices, including personal protective equipment (PPE), pharmaceuticals, plastics and rubber, adhesives and sealants, electronics, smartphones, cars, batteries, agricultural products, and the wind turbines and solar panels that capture alternative energy. The premium coke we make is part of the global supply chain for electric vehicles (EVs) and enables steel recycling. Our lubricants reduce friction to improve efficiency and cool the battery packs in EVs. For more details, see the Phillips 66 Value Chain.Our company further contributes to the economy through the taxes we pay. Since 2012, Phillips 66 
has paid more than $10.3 billion in income and property taxes to local, state and federal governments, helping fund programs for public schools and projects such as roads, bridges, ports and waterways.In 2020, our financial performance reflected the challenging business environment caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, including asset impairments. We reported a loss of $4 billion, or $9.06 per share, generated $2.1 billion of operating cash flow and returned $2 billion to shareholders. In addition, we took significant steps to reduce costs and capital spending to enhance our liquidity in response to the market challenges.Since 2012, we have distributed over $28 billion to shareholders through dividends, share repurchases and share exchanges, reducing our initial shares outstanding by 34%. We achieved these results through our continued commitment to safe, reliable and environmentally sustainable operations.CAPITAL INVESTMENTSOver the last five years, our capital investments totaled more than $14 billion. Some key projects underway, or recently completed, include:•	Increasing renewable fuel production capability at Humber and Rodeo refineries•	Completing the Gray Oak Pipeline and initiating crude oil export operations at the South Texas Gateway Terminal•	Adding a fourth dock at our Beaumont Terminal•	Completing the Sweeny Hub Phase 2 natural gas liquids capacity expansionClimate ChangePhillips 66 recognizes the need to address climate change. Access to energy is at the heart of nearly every major global challenge and opportunity. We are a part of balancing the need for affordable energy to promote human progress and economic growth while developing climate change solutions. The company supports global action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Our approach is to improve the efficiency of our diversified and resilient operations and make investments to meet the world’s evolving energy needs while advancing a lower-carbon future. POLITICAL AND PUBLIC POLICY PROCESSPhillips 66 participates in the legislative and regulatory policy development and political process legally, responsibly and ethically to serve the best interests of our shareholders, workforce and other stakeholders. Our operations are highly regulated and are affected by actions at many levels of government. Our public policy activities include education and advocacy efforts at the local, state and federal government levels. We are committed to complying with all applicable state and federal rules on lobbying and disclosures. Our Political Giving and Activity Policy governs our actions. The policy discloses governance by the board of directors and management, the criteria by which we consistently evaluate contributions and the contributions made over the past five years. The board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee has oversight of political risks and receives updates throughout the year. PHILLIPS 66 EMPLOYEE POLITICAL 
ACTION COMMITTEE (PAC66)In accordance with board and company policies, Phillips 66 does not make direct corporate contributions to candidates in state and federal elections where prohibited. Employees can support candidates for office through PAC66.PAC66 is funded exclusively through voluntary contributions from eligible employees and members of the board of directors. It is registered with the Federal Election Commission, and contributions are reported monthly. Employees participating in PAC66 are not reimbursed, directly or indirectly, for political contributions 
or expensesPAC66 has its own board of directors, comprised of a broad cross-section of company employees. The board approves all PAC66 disbursements, which are made solely in the company’s best interest and that of its shareholders, and not according to the personal agendas of individual directors, officers or employees. PAC66 contributes to state and federal political candidates who support responsible energy industry activities and other business issues of interest to the company.TRADE ASSOCIATIONSWe participate in industry trade associations to share technical and standards expertise, share lessons learned from incident investigations, develop best practices, and take part in public education efforts regarding issues of common concern to our industry. Our participation in trade and industry associations is subject to management oversight by our Government Affairs team, which serves as the principal representative in such associations and recommends memberships to our executive leadership team. We regularly review associations and memberships to ensure they continue to serve business needs.Phillips 66 pays regular membership dues to several trade associations, some of which use a portion of the dues for nondeductible state and federal lobbying and political expenditures. Following the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, those trade associations provide us with documentation of the part of our annual dues that is attributable to lobbying expenses. We disclose these contributions in our Political Giving and Activity Policy. There are many issues that trade associations follow, including climate change. We use our climate change position and principles when evaluating a trade association’s position on specific legislation 
or regulation.Participation in a trade association, including membership on its board, does not mean that the company agrees with every position taken on an issue and, at times, our corporate positions may differ from those of the association. We recognize that as trade association members there can be viewpoints that differ from ours. When this occurs, we seek to work with the association membership to promote reasonable compromise on major initiatives affecting our business and our stakeholders.Additionally, we are active members in local chambers of commerce and civic organizations where our operating assets are located. A list of key organizations can be found in our Political Giving and Activity Policy.Global Specialties ProductsThe Global Specialties business underscores the value of a diversified portfolio and vertical integration between refining and petrochemical processes.Critical in our everyday lives, polypropylene is one of the world’s most versatile plastics. It’s in the N95 masks protecting health care workers
and the cars that keep people safe on the road. It even captures the fizz in your soda bottle and helps snacks stay fresher longer.Phillips 66 operates a 775 million pounds/year capacity plant at the Bayway Refinery in Linden, New Jersey, and markets the resin under
the COPYLENE® brand and through unbranded channels. Although the refinery utilization in 2020 was impaired, the refinery maximized polypropylene production and exceeded 2019 rates. This meant providing foundational material for medical supplies, food service and other essential products during challenging times. We make the resin from propylene monomer, a gas, effectively upgrading a
byproduct of the refining process into an in-demand, higher-value polymer.Phillips 66 is the smallest polypropylene producer by capacity in the 19-billion-pounds-a-year U.S. market, but we are one of only two producers in the Northeast. This gives us a logistical advantage because the Northeast and Midwest house the bulk of U.S. converter demand, while much of the production capacity is 1,000 miles or more away in the Gulf Coast region.Polypropylene is also highly recyclable. Industrial and consumer applications include automotive components, appliances, fibers for carpeting, and health care and hygiene, including baby diapers. Other Specialty products also include solvents, fuel coke, sulfur and 
premium coke.775 millionpounds polypropylene capacity per year at 
Bayway RefineryCOPYLENE® brand polypropyleneProducts Derived From Crude Oil and Natural Gas Liquids (NGLs)Components for ElectronicsComponents for BatteriesComponents for  Solar PanelsComponents for Vehicles and EVsComponents for Wind TurbinesCosmeticsFuelsFertilizersHealth Care Products and Medical DevicesEVs chargingPharmaceuticalsPlastics and RubberLubricants, Adhesives and Sealants13GOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCEPRINCIPLES FOR A CLIMATE PROGRAM Phillips 66 supports climate policy that:•	Is a market-based, economy-wide solution that is also fuel- and technology-neutral for all energy sources to facilitate the meaningful GHG emissions reductions that are most beneficial and least costly to society•	Balances economic, environmental 
and energy security needs•	Rationalizes overlapping policies 
or programs•	Ensures that energy producers, manufacturers and suppliers 
are responsible for their 
direct emissions•	Recognizes and appropriately accounts for early or voluntary actions•	Makes any regulatory cost, and associated climate benefits, transparent to 
the consumer•	Promotes fundamental public research at the 
pre-commercial stage 
to advance viable 
energy solutions