Social Responsibility Investing In Our People Executing our corporate strategy depends on the talents of our high-performing organization. We are committed to developing our employees. We actively seek to promote employee well-being through sound policies and programs. As outlined earlier in the Governance chapter, we are in the midst of a multiyear effort to proactively evolve and strengthen our corporate culture through the behaviors of our people, which we refer to as Our Energy in Action. We work hard to maintain a deep sense of engagement, responsibility, respect and community among our employees and contractors. This means ongoing internal and external stakeholder dialogue and responsiveness. Attracting and Retaining the Best People Phillips 66 offers competitive jobs and provides varied development opportunities for our people to learn and grow. We are proud of our competitive benefit packages, which include health and well-being programs and resources (medical, dental, vision, employee assistance programs, well-being initiatives), pension and savings (401k), as well as life and income protection and retirement planning support. New U.S. employees, for example, are automatically enrolled into the company savings plan that the company matches dollar for dollar, up to 6% of pay. In 2019, the median annual total compensation was more than $188,000, including salary variable compensation and company-provided benefits. Our bonus program is based on company performance, business unit performance and individual performance. In addition to our safety and environmental performance, the program criteria are used to advance human capital metrics such as retention, development, capacity and performance. We undertake annual benchmarking to ensure that the delivery and value of our total compensation and benefits package remains attractive and competitive to meet the needs of our evolving workforce. We have formal special recognition programs to acknowledge exemplary performance or actions. We also have lifelong learning programs. Employees have had access to wellness programs since 2012. If our employees need help, we have an employee assistance program that provides confidential counseling and other resources and services. Many of our facilities have on-site health clinics, and we offer fitness facilities in some locations. Inclusion and Diversity Our company values inclusion and diversity (I&D) — concepts that are interdependent and equally important. They are essential to who we are, what we believe and how we do business. Inclusion means we value, respect and support one another. When we talk about diversity, we mean that we respect the characteristics and dimensions that differentiate our 14,500 employees. Our formal I&D efforts began in 2012 at the inception of Phillips 66. We are committed to high-level performance that can only be achieved through a culture that values people with a range of experiences, perspectives and knowledge. At Phillips 66, we lead with inclusion because, without it, diversity cannot thrive. Our definition of diversity includes factors such as race, gender and ethnicity, along with diversity of thought, experience and opinions. We are proactive in fostering a culture of inclusion, incorporating inclusive behaviors in our management development curriculum and through Our Energy in Action behavioral expectations of all employees. Inclusion is how we engage with each other and the value we place on the unique experiences, perspectives and backgrounds that our diverse employees represent. We want employees to feel that they belong and that their voices are heard. This results in more creative ideas and solutions, better decisions based on broader perspectives, and ultimately, better results for all our stakeholders. To this end, we have strategically focused on educating our employees on the business case for Inclusion & Diversity. In 2019, we began skill building on behaviors that complement and are assets to building an inclusive culture. INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY AT PHILLIPS 66 IS ANCHORED IN: • Leader-driven efforts across the organization • Employees who are each responsible for creating an inclusive and diverse workplace • Benefits for every employee, regardless of dimension of diversity • Policies, procedures and programs EXECUTIVE INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY COUNCIL We are committed to enabling an inclusive and diverse workforce throughout our global operations and work to strengthen these qualities organically within our company culture. We want employees to feel that their voices are heard and valued, and call upon our leadership to guide and support our approach to I&D. The I&D council, chaired by our chairman and CEO and comprised of the executive leadership team and other senior business leaders, is an advisory group committed to building an inclusive and diverse workplace. It was established in 2019 and sets the strategic vision from the top and throughout our organization for I&D efforts that drive innovation and enhance business outcomes. Our organizational mindset is that everyone has a role to play in creating an inclusive workplace where diversity, in all its forms, can thrive. EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are designed to be forums for sharing ideas and raising awareness around identity and belonging. Our eight ERGs have more than 50 chapters throughout the company. Groups meet many times a year, offering panels, discussions and other activities for all employees. We’re proud that approximately 44% of our employees participate in an ERG. While these groups develop organically according to need and request, they focus on personal and professional development, attracting talent and connecting our company and communities. Phillips 66’s ERGs are the Black Employee Network, the Hispanic Network, the Women’s Network, the Asian American Network, the Native American Network, the New Hire Network, Pride66, which is our LGBTQ+ network, and the Veterans Network. In addition, employees also form special interest clubs around hobbies or volunteer interests. Many new chapters of our ERGs were established in 2019. This includes four new Veterans Networks within our refineries and an extension of a refinery chapter of the Women’s Network to a nearby terminal. We also saw our global activities expand with the support of the new U.K. Inclusion & Diversity Network pilot. This network was established to bring together employees who were interested in supporting the efforts of the ERGs but worked in locations that don’t have the population to support one specific ERG. The U.K. Inclusion & Diversity Network has been instrumental in providing programming around limiting unconscious bias through conscious inclusion, support for Pride month and other I&D initiatives at our U.K. facilities. Changes made to the ERG structure in 2018 led to a global approach in how we manage these groups. The changes increase leadership engagement and support, streamline responsibilities and increase strategic alignment among locations. Each ERG now has a local sponsor and a local leader, along with global executive leaders. INCLUSIVE BENEFITS AT A GLANCE Phillips 66 offers various benefits to eligible employees and their children, spouses, domestic partners and children of domestic partners. • Parental Leave: Short-term disability coverage for the birth of a child is 10 weeks at 100% pay. Plus, new mothers and fathers are eligible for up to two weeks of paid time off at 100% pay for care and bonding under our Parental Leave Policy. When combined, these benefits provide adoptive and birth mothers with as much as 12 weeks of leave at 100% pay. • Adoption: The company helps with adoption expenses, including agency fees, placement fees, legal fees, court costs and other expenses. • Flex Time: The 19/30 program allows employees to take one personal day off each month by extending each workday that month by 30 minutes. • Family Leave: We have policies that allow employees to take paid time off to care for a seriously ill family member or when there’s a death in the family. • Personal Leave: Unpaid personal leave is available for matters that require extended time off; using such leave won’t cause a break in an employee’s continuous Phillips 66 service. • Military Leave: Employees may be entitled to paid or unpaid leave for active service in the military. • Disability Leave: Sick or injured employees who are unable to work may be eligible for disability leave after vacation and short-term disability benefits are exhausted. • Financial Support: Phillips 66 provides employees with cash assistance or loans if they are displaced from their house or suffer personal loss following a natural disaster. INSPIRING WOMEN IN THE WORKFORCE The energy industry has continued to focus on attracting and retaining women, and Phillips 66 is no exception. While we have seen increases in women on our board and in senior leadership, we still see an opportunity to ensure that women perceive our industry as a place to have a rewarding career, where they are represented at all levels of our organization. Public recognition of women driving change in the I&D arena includes Vice President of Energy Research and Innovation Ann Oglesby’s induction into the 2019 Oklahoma State University (OSU) Diversity Hall of Fame. OSU recognizes individuals for their service to diversity; Oglesby has been actively advocating the importance of diversity for more than 30 years. She serves on the Phillips 66 Executive Inclusion and Diversity Council and the OSU Diversity Development Council. She is also a board member of the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering. Our employees also give their time and talent to mentor college students seeking career advice. Senior leadership routinely speak at public events, including Executive Vice President of Legal and Government Affairs Paula Johnson, who participated in the 2019 Women in Business Leadership Conference hosted by the JCPenney Leadership Program at Oklahoma University’s Price College of Business. Attended predominantly by female college students, the conference served as a platform for those joining the workforce to seek advice from successful businesswomen. Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Corporate Communications Sonya Reed was the keynote speaker at Ford Motor Company’s Diversity and Inclusion Day, explaining how organizations must “tap into the collective genius” within their workforces to seek answers and gain competitive advantages. SUPPORT FOR PRIDE Phillips 66 became an official sponsor of the Houston Pride Parade, one of the country’s largest, for the first time in 2019. We also donated to Pride Houston and provided sponsorship to Pride on the Port in Los Angeles alongside further activities organized via our Employee Resource Groups. We continue to demonstrate our support of the LGBTQ+ community. In April 2019, we received a score of 95 on the Corporate Equality Index, a measure of workplace equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer employees. Phillips 66 2019 Workforce Data Women hold 21% of the jobs in our international workforce, 27% of professional roles and 19% of the jobs in supervisory leadership roles. Minorities make up 26% of our U.S. workforce and 19% of U.S..based supervisory leadership roles. Among new hires in 2019, 42% are experienced professionals and 9% are university graduates. Retention of all employees was 94%, a voluntary turnover rate of 6%. Labor Union-represented employees make up approximately 35% of our U.S. employee population. Represented employees work in our Refining, Midstream and lubricants facilities. Our labor philosophy endeavors to create and maintain collaborative relationships with unions in support of our business objectives. We respect the rights of our represented employees to bargain collectively and reach agreements that are both fair and equitable and enable each business unit to compete in an increasingly challenging global market. Additionally, our represented employees are active leaders in their communities and often champion our causes and initiatives with local and state governments. Of the employees in Generational Mix our global workforce, Phillips 66 is generationally diverse with four generations in the 3% are Generation Z, workforce. Attracting new workers and maintaining a pipeline 40% are considered of talent through compensation, training, development and Millennials, 39% are networking opportunities sets us in strong stead for the future GenX and 18% are of our company and industry. The multi-generational mix of our baby boomers. workforce is shown in the graph on this page. As a result of a multiyear program to hire military veterans, we have been able to attract, retain and support veterans in our workforce; we’re proud that veterans account for 9% of our U.S. workforce, and 10% of our 2019 U.S. 9% hourly new hires. Military Times “Best for Vets: Employers” included us in its 2019 rankings because of our broad commitment to workforce inclusion and veterans in diversity. We look for opportunities to continually improve at every level of U.S. workforce our organization. In 2019, we were recognized by Forbes as one of “America’s Best Employers” and received the International Association of Business Communicators Gold Quill award for our “What Does Inclusion Mean to You?” video. COMMITMENT THROUGH THE GENERATIONS We are proud of our heritage and commitment to employees, and that’s reflected by the long careers people build at our company and in the industry. Almost half of our workforce has been with the company since its inception. About one-third have more than 15 years industry experience. We have employees whose families have worked here for generations. A recent example is Bo Smith (pictured far right, below), who was hired at the Borger Refinery in Texas in 2019. Four generations of Bo’s family have worked in the Borger community, and Bo continues that family tradition. The refinery is the largest employer in Borger, with around 1,000 employees, and the Borger Refinery has a connection to most of the businesses or services in town. Learning, Training and Development We provide regular opportunities for employees to deepen expertise, broaden experience and further enhance foundational skills like communication and team building. Our performance management process identifies coaching and training needs. In 2019, our employees collectively received 900,000 hours of training. Talent Management Teams offer employees structured input on job moves and career development. About 22% of employees moved into new roles in 2019, an increase from our historical average of 20%. In addition to annual performance reviews, all employees have at least one development review each year with their direct supervisor. We also utilize 360-degree feedback. CAREER GROWTH We offer employees many opportunities for career growth. Among them: • New hire onboarding educates new employees on our company vision, values and culture • “Leading the Vision” and “Leading for Success” programs advance continuous coaching skills for people leaders • On-demand professional development for employees through digital learning platforms • Specialized training for employees in operator roles, engineering, sales and finance • Support for craft schools near our manufacturing facilities • “Crucial conversations” training provides communication skills development • “KATALYST” training increases employee knowledge of operations, supply and the value chain • “Lunch and Learn” sessions on a variety of topics Internships We provide paid internships at every major U.S. job location, offering students opportunities to learn and play a role in the organization’s success. In 2019, we recruited the most diverse intern class to date, with 39% underrepresented minorities, up from 31% in 2018, and we maintained a record-high 48% female representation. On average, 90% of our interns are offered positions with the company after they earn their degrees, and a similar percentage from the 2019 intern class accepted the offers. HEALTHY COMPETITION We believe that healthy competition and a diverse workforce drive innovation, as seen in our launch of the inaugural Phillips 66 Business and Engineering Diversity Case Competition at the University of Colorado, Boulder (CU). This new physical and co-curricular partnership between CU’s Leeds School of Business and the College of Engineering & Applied Science fosters collaboration between first-time college or minority students from engineering and business schools in their quest to solve case studies focusing on the U.N.’s Sustainable Development Goals. Such real-life business scenario simulations offer unique opportunities for students to collaborate and appreciate the benefit of diverse teams. Employee Opinion Survey We conduct biennial confidential employee engagement surveys to gather employee perspectives on their experience working at Phillips 66. Results are available to all employees and the board of directors. Management analyzes findings to identify progress on previous recommendations and areas of continued opportunity. Accountability for follow up sits with the executive leadership team and with every “people leader.” Results are shared throughout the organization via CEO communications, business unit town halls and team meetings. The 2018 survey had a 74% response rate and showed favorable scores in areas related to corporate values, the company’s future and manager effectiveness. In lower-scoring areas, we continue to take appropriate action, keeping our employees updated on progress so they continue to feel valued and heard. Stakeholder Engagement We value our stakeholder relationships, which have been a priority for us since we started as a company in 2012 and enable us to fulfill our purpose and to execute our strategy. Our stakeholders include employees, shareholders, investors, customers, communities where we operate, indigenous people, legislators and energy consumers. To identify trends and factors that may be important to us and our stakeholders, we cast wide nets internally and externally to collect and understand important data and perspectives. Because people’s views of the future are shaped by their perceptions of the present and their beliefs about what the future should look like, we tap into an array of sources inside and outside the sector, across countries and political perspectives, and covering physical, policy, human capital and reputational risk and opportunities-related information. We routinely gather feedback from in-person interviews and surveys, service companies, consultants, industry bodies, research firms and analyst reports, governmental databases, environmental and social nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), global policy bodies, ESG raters and ESG advocates, rating agencies and indices, community advisory boards and public feedback, and private sector providers. We are leaders in in-person engagements with our ESG-focused shareholders, specifically discussing the issues addressed in this report. We do not limit this intake of information to data. We continually listen to policy debates and assess big picture trends that could play a role in our strategic planning and our future. We consider our efforts to collect ideas, data and information on these and many other topics to be both good business and a way to live out our core values of safety, honor and commitment. This work is central to our planning and sustainability. Throughout Phillips 66, our processes provide a measured and responsive approach to stakeholder engagement, while our community call-in lines offer anonymity. If a community concern is raised, we respond. The concern is directed to those who can take action and, when needed, escalated to the relevant business unit leader or to refinery management. Corporate senior leadership is regularly briefed on any community feedback, and we respond as appropriate and take strategic action when needed. The board Public Policy Committee is updated with feedback from stakeholder engagement as part of its global reputation charter. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND EDUCATION The communities in which Phillips 66’s assets are located are critical stakeholders. We consistently and regularly engage with our local and indigenous communities and seek their feedback. Below are 24-hour community hotlines for each of our refineries. COMMUNITY ADVISORY PANELS Our Refining operations have well-established Community Advisory Councils or Panels (CAC/CAPs) that represent a cooperative and empowering environment for collaboration in the community. CACs and CAPs include company representatives and community members who meet at least quarterly.  Leadership from Refining, and in some regions Midstream and lubricants operations, provides feedback on performance, discusses topics of local concern and shares insights on plans and activities. The Wood River Refinery CAP also serves our Midstream and Marketing & Specialties operations in the area. The Billings CAC covers the Refining and Midstream operations there. CACs/CAPs keep open communication channels for safety, feedback and grievances, including named and openly contactable leaders. Members of CACs and CAPs also give us feedback on their communications preferences. We use this feedback to be responsive to community needs, for example, by expanding our social media activities related to our business units. Our pipeline business unit has year-round community awareness, education and listening panels to stay in touch with those involved with and affected by our extensive pipeline network. Call 811 before you dig! MIDSTREAM EDUCATION AND OUTREACH U.S. government and oil industry statistics show that the most common cause of pipeline incidents is improper or unauthorized digging. If someone puts a shovel or heavy machinery in the ground without knowing there’s a pipeline buried beneath, they can cause serious damage. This is why our pipeline operations business maintains an 811 call center for safe digging. The call center has handled more than a million calls, and we seek feedback and maintain many avenues for communication — a website for community education, toll-free numbers for questions or concerns, and an email portal. Phillips 66 also conducts outreach directly with people who live or work near rights-of-way we operate. We offer specialized education programs for farmers, ranchers, and emergency response and public officials. We work closely with schools near our pipelines. This effort focuses on three coordinated activities: teaching districts how to develop safety processes and consider pipeline locations in their planning, providing related science-based curriculum materials for educators, and collaborating with parent-teacher organizations that share information through their networks. In the broader community, project updates and hazard or safety reminders are disseminated through involvement with local emergency planning committees, via door-to-door walks and formal correspondence, email and media campaigns, and community forums. We are proud to meet or exceed regulatory requirements and industry best practices for informing the public about our operations. Our public awareness programs have been benchmarked as top-of-industry. SOCIAL RISK ASSESSMENT We adhere to local and national laws and regulations regarding requirements for environmental, social and health assessments prior to starting operations at a new site, including pipelines. For new projects, we conduct a comprehensive social risk assessment to understand the people and concerns along a proposed route. We provide up-to-date information to stakeholder communities about potential impacts and environmental, health and safety aspects of our work. Much of this information is available on our public website. We regularly update and disseminate information through press releases, our website, social media and, in some cases, door-to-door flyer distribution. We also hold public consultations at which we encourage dialogue and welcome feedback from our stakeholders. HUMAN RIGHTS We approach our stakeholder engagement from a position of mutual respect, respecting human rights, demonstrating our values through our actions and being a good neighbor. We conduct our operations in compliance with all applicable laws, in accordance with our company values and policies, and consistent with the spirit of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. An example that brings our human rights position to life can be found in our relationship with the Lummi Nation, a Native American tribe and a neighbor to our Washington state facility. Members of the Nation are part of our Community Advisory Panel. For many years, we have been invited to participate in the Nation’s First Salmon Ceremony, which our leadership team is honored to join. We support the Lummi Nation’s education priorities, such as the Lummi Northwest Indian College and Boys and Girls Club education center, and we participate in many Nation activities and programs. Our support of Crisis Text Line is another example of how we respect human rights and work to improve lives. Crisis Text Line provides live, trained crisis counselors through a free, 24/7 text line for people in emotional crisis. The goal of the text conversation is to get the person to a calm, safe place, whether via a referral to further help or by just knowing that someone is there and listening. Simply text 741741. CUSTOM, TRADITION AND PARTNERSHIP WITH LUMMI NATION 2019 saw the dedication and installation of a stunning Western Red Cedar totem pole at the entrance to our Ferndale Refinery in Washington state. Carved by Jewell James of our neighboring tribe, the Lummi Nation, the pole took many months to carve and paint, involving a team of people whose ages ranged from 6 to 68. Commissioning a totem pole is highly symbolic and continues a tradition that began in 1955. Honoring the relationship that the Lummi Nation and Phillips 66 have with the land, the totem pole references the energy of the sun and the moon and the importance of protecting our environment and the diversity within it. The beautiful totem pole is pictured on page 2 of this report. We are grateful to our neighbor, the Lummi Nation, for our gift. SUPPLY CHAIN Our procurement policy governs our supply chain. We have a formal program to vet suppliers for safety, quality and financial assurance. Understanding and monitoring the work conducted by our diverse suppliers and business partners is integral to efficient and robust business operations, sustainability and respect for human rights. These controls have strengthened our supply chain resilience through use of optimal supply alternatives, standardization and supplier relationships, which give us an advantaged position in managing unexpected risk events, with the ability to respond and recover quickly to potential market disruptions. As explained in our Governance chapter, suppliers and partners are expected to comply with contractual regulations and the principles of conduct set out in our Business Partner Principles of Conduct. We audit suppliers’ manufacturing facilities, as well as contracts within our supply chain, to ensure adherence to policy. In complying with laws where we do business, Phillips 66 supply chain standards meet minimum wage, child labor, right to associate or bargain collectively, and working hours laws. It should go without saying, but we don’t use corporal punishment. Where we provide housing for our employees, we ensure living conditions are safe and sanitary. Our suppliers are expected to certify that the materials incorporated into products manufactured for Phillips 66 comply with all laws, including those pertaining to human rights, slavery and human trafficking. The products manufactured in our refineries and developed along the supply chain significantly contribute to strengthening the economies in our communities. In all our operations, Phillips 66 seeks to partner with diverse businesses and is committed to providing equal and impartial opportunities. This approach stimulates local economic development and enhances our long-term business performance by improving supplier responsiveness, competition and sustainability. Our supplier diversity initiative facilitates active participation in organizations that support the development of diverse businesses in the United States. We are corporate members of the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council. Digital Village, Houston Headquarters CUSTOMERS We supply petroleum products to wholesale distributors, who deliver them to more than 7,500 Phillips 66®, Conoco® and 76® branded fuel stations in the United States and Mexico. In Europe, we supply 1,600 JET® and COOP branded fuel stations in the United Kingdom, Germany, Austria and Switzerland. We also supply branded lubricants at various retail outlets across the United States, under the Kendall®, Red Line® and Smart BlendTM brands. Phillips 66 is a major jet and Phillips 66 is a major jet and avgas fuel supplier to private, commercial and military aviation. We also provide businesses with chemicals and solvents, premium coke and other specialty products. We maintain open channels of communication to serve these customers with a range of quality products. Extending Digitalization of the Consumer Experience Industry experts predict 20% of all transactions will happen via mobile devices in the next five years, so digitalization of the customer experience is a growing need. In response, we took the lead in 2018, offering secure, fast and convenient mobile payment through our My Phillips 66®, My Conoco® and My 76® consumer apps. We expanded the program in 2019, and the digital apps now work at more than 5,600 of our stations across the country. Based on consumer feedback, we are continuing updates and enhancements to the mobile pay program in 2020. We are also improving our fuel stations to meet customer expectations for well-lit, safe and easy-to-access locations. Since 2015, we’ve reimaged approximately 4,200 Phillips 66®, Conoco® and 76® stations across the United States, including over 1,600 in 2019 alone. In the reimaging process, we replaced 97,000 canopy light fixtures with energy-saving LEDs, resulting in savings of almost 100 million kWH per year. Facilities and technology improvements are a significant investment in security, both physical and digital, consistent with our company values and strategy. We are also reimaging JET® stations in Europe. DRIVING CUSTOMER EXCELLENCE In 2019, 23 new JET® sites opened across Austria, Germany and the U.K. In Germany, the JET brand was voted Brand of the Year for the tenth consecutive year in a YouGov poll in the service station category covering the entire German competitive landscape. The research involves over 900,000 representative online interviews and includes more than 1,200 brands across 38 categories. Brands are ranked in categories including impression, quality, value, satisfaction and reputation. INSPIRING YOUNG PILOTS FOR 25 YEARS 2019 marked 25 years of Phillips 66’s support for the Experimental Aircraft Association (EAA) Young Eagles, a program that gives young people their first ride in a small general aviation aircraft. Since the program began, it has enabled more than two million 7 to 18 year olds to take to the skies. Volunteer pilots, some of whom are graduates of the Young Eagles program themselves, use their aircraft to introduce kids to aviation. Phillips 66 also offers a $1 rebate per gallon to pilots who refuel with Phillips 66 after flying Young Eagles. INNOVATIVE MOBILE PAY APP WINS CONSUMER AWARD Harnessing technology to deliver value and convenience to consumers is central to our business ethos. Phillips 66’s Mobile Pay team was recognized at the Annual ICX Summit in 2019, winning the Best Mobile Interactive Customer Experience Award for the My Phillips 66® app. The accolade recognizes platform-based interactive solutions that engage audiences and extend brand presence through the essential devices in the consumers’ lives. Through the app, consumers can locate their closest gas station, pay at the pump and in-store via a secure online payment system, enroll in the Kickback Rewards loyalty program and enjoy various other cost savings. The responsiveness and enhanced convenience have also driven an increase in consumer loyalty at Phillips 66 branded stations. The app was developed in collaboration with P97 Networks, a provider of secure mobile commerce and digital marketing solutions. We continue to enhance the app with new payment methods and features. INVESTORS, BANKS AND INSURERS We proactively engage with our investors, banks and insurers and socially responsible investors (SRIs) to discuss items of interest or concern, and to learn about topics of interest to their stakeholders. Regular communication enables these stakeholder groups to fulfill commitments related to Principles for Responsible Investment, a voluntary set of investment principles related to the integration of sustainability issues in investment decision-making processes. In 2019 and 2020, we hosted a conference in Houston to share sustainability best practices with banks, investors and our peers. TRADE ASSOCIATIONS We participate in industry trade associations to share technical and standards expertise, share lessons learned from incident investigations, develop best practices, and be part of public education efforts regarding issues of common concern to our industry. Our participation in trade and industry associations is subject to management oversight by our Governmental Affairs team, which approves our memberships and serves as the principal representative in such associations. Phillips 66 pays regular membership dues to several trade associations, some of which use a portion of the dues for nondeductible state and federal lobbying and political expenditures. Following the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, those trade associations provide us with the portion of our annual dues that is attributable to lobbying expenses. We disclose these contributions in our Political Giving and Activity Policy. In addition to being active members in local chambers of commerce and civic organizations where our operating assets are located, the company is a member of many industry trade organizations. A listing of key organizations can also be found in our Political Giving and Activity Policy. PAC66 In accordance with federal and state law and board and company policies, Phillips 66 does not make direct corporate contributions to candidates or political committees supporting candidates in federal or state elections where prohibited. Employees can support candidates for office through the Phillips 66 employee Political Action Committee (PAC66). PAC66 is funded exclusively through voluntary contributions from eligible employees and members of the board of directors. It is registered with the Federal Election Commission, and contributions are fully reported on a monthly basis. Employees participating in PAC66 are not reimbursed, directly or indirectly, for political contributions or expenses. PAC66 has its own board of directors, which is composed of a broad cross-section of company employees. The board approves all PAC66 disbursements, which are made solely in the best interest of the company and its shareholders, and not according to the personal agendas of individual directors, officers or employees. PAC66 contributes to federal and state political candidates who support responsible energy industry activities and other business issues of interest to the company. MEDIA Media coverage about our company is another way we learn what is top-of-mind to our communities. Alongside social media, it’s a way to let community members know what’s going on, from philanthropic and community events that we sponsor to biodiversity efforts and business development. We maintain our local, national and trade media relationships as part of our commitment to communicating and maintaining transparency with our various stakeholders. We proactively share information with and are responsive to inquiries from news outlets. In the event of an incident, we ensure that community information is available in a timely manner. Community Investment and Social Impact One way we move our company strategy forward is by promoting economic, social and environmental advancement in the 88,000 communities where we live and work. In short, we work toward a sustainable workforce and sustainable neighborhoods. volunteer hours in our communities The strategy for our corporate philanthropy program that we refer to as ‘social impact’, is based on four focus areas: Education and Literacy, Environment and Sustainability, Community Safety and $28MM* Preparedness, and Civic Enrichment. contributed to We encourage our employees to volunteer their time to causes communities that are important to them. 2019 was another record year for our volunteer program. Phillips 66 employees invested 88,000 hours volunteering to teach STEM and working at literacy summer $7.2MM* camps, building homes with Habitat for Humanity, assembling equipment for local fire departments, planting trees at local in matching gifts, schools, doing household chores for people who aren’t physically volunteer grants and able, picking up trash along roads and beaches, and much more. dependent scholarshipsin 2019 Our commitment to the greater good also included charitable donations totaling $28 million in 2019, and the company is setting its sights on doing even more in 2020. 469,000 Our regular full- and part-time employees are entitled to take two paid days per year to volunteer with initiatives and organizations that hold Total volunteer hours significance for them. Union employees are eligible for the benefit as since 2012 well when it is part of their collective bargaining agreement. *MM = millions Phillips 66 also donates $500 for every 20 hours an employee or spouse volunteers with an eligible 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Teams of four or more employees, retirees or spouse volunteers may apply for a team volunteer grant of $1,000. We encourage personal philanthropy by matching employee donations to eligible 501(c)(3) nonprofit organizations dollar-for-dollar, up to $15,000 per year. Retiree donations are matched dollar-for-dollar up to $7,500 a year. In 2019, we donated $7.2 million in matching gifts, volunteer grants and dependent scholarships. The United Way provides services in virtually all of the communities where our employees live and work. Most of our locations in the United States participate in United Way campaigns. Employee participation is voluntary, and the company matches employee donations. GIVING AROUND THE GLOBE Our Singapore office is committed to serving the community, sponsoring five Social Service Organizations (SSOs) for many years. In 2019, the Philanthropic team planned activities with local organizations for less privileged children, participated in a charity walk organized by the Society for the Physically Disabled and donated funds to the organization. Phillips 66 Singapore made additional contributions to SSOs, including Food Bank Singapore. Food Bank Singapore is a charity organization that aims to reduce food waste by acquiring donated nonperishable food items with at least four weeks of shelf life and redistributing them to people in need. With help and donations from employees, the company was able to donate dozens of food items including rice, noodles, pasta, oil, canned items and cereals. In Germany, our employees support their communities and local organizations with time, in-kind donations and financial support. In 2019, our employees made a difference in people’s lives by supporting numerous social organizations including: • Helping provide hygiene facilities, essentials for survival and clothing for homeless people through the Mitternachtsbus, RAP for Refugees and CaFée mit Herz initiatives • Gardening and preparing for the summer festival for the children’s hospice • Spending quality time with nursing home residents and decorating the Anscharhoehe Foundation’s Christmas tree during the holiday season INVESTING IN THE FUTURE STEM Phillips 66 is a long-term advocate of STEM education. As part of our commitment to encouraging STEM, we continue to invest in related community activities. In 2019 Phillips 66 became the main presenting sponsor of the Girls STEM Academy at Space Center Houston, designed to encourage middle-school girls to explore STEM topics at a time when research shows that girls can often lose interest in these subjects. The center aims to offer learning and experiential activities through tools, robotics and technology, and access to NASA experts. As workforce demands rapidly change, equipping girls with such skills and confidence is key to both their success and an inclusive workforce. SCHOLARSHIPS More than 2.5 million visitors from more than 75 countries attended the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo in 2019. Phillips 66 was a first-time sponsor via a scholarship. The event, known for its generous contribution to supporting education, carries significant cultural and financial significance for Houston. Since 1932, it has raised over $500 million in scholarships for Texas students. Financial Performance Our industry is essential to the worldwide economy. As the foundation of economic development for our growing global population, energy needs to be reliable, abundant, accessible and affordable. With a diverse portfolio of assets in the Midstream, Chemicals, Refining, and Marketing & Specialties businesses, we process, transport, store and market fuels and products globally. Phillips 66 is well positioned to benefit from continued demand for our products for decades to come. Below is a depiction of our business value chain. Global Markets *Non-operated joint ventures We produce transportation fuels and the materials necessary to create products for modern life. Derived from crude oil or NGLs, our products are used to create: • Health care products and medical devices • Pharmaceuticals • Plastics and rubber • Adhesives and sealants • Electronics, smartphones • Cars, batteries • Agricultural products • Wind turbines and solar panels that capture alternative energy We’re an essential part of feeding, clothing and caring for the world’s growing population and moving its people and commerce. Our employees have competitive salaries, generous benefits and fulfilling work, allowing them to improve their lives and contribute to the financial well-being of their communities. We provide thousands of well-paying jobs, and every year, we hire thousands of contractors, subcontractors and suppliers, all of whom benefit from our business operations. Our company further contributes to the economy through the taxes we pay. Since 2012, Phillips 66 has paid more than $9.9 billion in income, >$9.9B excise and property taxes to local, state and federal governments, Paid in Income, helping to fund programs that include public schools, roads, bridges, Excise and Property ports and waterways. Taxes since 2012 Infrastructure We ensure our infrastructure and facilities operate safely and efficiently; doing so protects people and the environment. Over the last five years, our capital investments totaled $17 billion. Some key projects underway, or recently completed, include: • The Gray Oak Pipeline owned by Phillips 66 Partners, is an 840-mile pipeline capable of shipping 900,000 BPD of crude oil from the Permian and Eagle Ford to multiple Gulf Coast destinations, including our Sweeny Refinery. It commenced initial operations in 2019 and full service in 2020. • At the Sweeny Hub, we continued constructing two 150,000 BPD natural gas liquids (NGL) fractionators and associated pipeline infrastructure, and we are adding 7.5 million barrels of storage capacity at our Phillips 66 Partners’ Clemens Caverns. Upon completion, expected in the fourth quarter of 2020, the Sweeny Hub will have 400,000 BPD of fractionation capacity and 16.5 million barrels of storage at Clemens Caverns. • The Beaumont Terminal is strategically located on the U.S. Gulf Coast with connections to 11 crude oil pipelines and access to six refineries. The terminal has been expanded to 16.8 million barrels of total crude and products. • In Refining, we successfully completed multiple high-return projects across our system, increasing diesel yield and low-sulfur fuel oil production. At the Sweeny Refinery, we completed the FCC unit upgrade to increase production of higher-value petrochemical products and higher-octane gasoline. • In Marketing, we formed a retail marketing joint venture on the U.S. West Coast. The joint venture operates a network that includes approximately 580 sites, enabling long-term placement of our refinery production and increasing our exposure to retail margins. From 2012 through 2019, we have distributed $26 billion to shareholders through dividends, share repurchases and share exchanges, reducing our initial shares outstanding by 33%. We achieved these results through our continued commitment to safe, reliable and environmentally sustainable operations. Phillips 66 2019 in Review $3.1 Billion $3.9 Billion $6.77 In Total Earnings In Capital Expenditures & In Total Earnings Per Share Investments $4.8 Billion  $3.2 Billion  $1.6 Billion in Cash  In Cash from Operations  Of Capital Returned to  On Hand  Shareholders  Seeing the Greater Good At Phillips 66 we invest in much more than business operations, product development and R&D. We invest in our people, our communities and the environment. We do this because it serves the greater good. We do it with a strategy that grow our Midstream and Chemicals segments, enhance returns in our other segments, deliver shareholder distributions and develop our people. Our company values of safety, honor and commitment and our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct are foundational to our dedication. In addition to providing energy to improve lives, our business operations bring financial benefit to thousands of individuals and their communities. Our way of working protects our employees and our communities. We adhere to the highest safety standards, support labor-management alliances and create training opportunities for employees. We offer employees a variety of outstanding benefits, including wellness programs. We advance workforce inclusion and diversity, starting with our board of directors. We pay taxes that fund government programs. We invest heavily in infrastructure and facilities; their maintenance and integrity provide our communities with reliable, affordable, abundant energy. We support educational and civic projects. We use our expertise to participate in policy debates. We provide role models for political stability and the protection of human rights in all of the communities in which we operate. And we provide income to many beneficiaries, including our shareholders and their families. We welcome discussion on viable solutions to the dual challenge of providing affordable energy to support economic growth and human prosperity while addressing the environmental effects of that development. At Phillips 66 we invest in much more than business operations, product development and R&D. We invest in our people, our communities and the environment. We do this because it serves the greater good. Habitat for Humanity Build Day, Houston 