To Our Employees, Communities and Investors, When we presented our sustainability report last year, we took the opportunity to tell you what we were doing at that moment as our industry — and the world — contended with the pandemic. At Phillips 66, we honored our values as we responded to the challenges: We acted quickly and decisively to keep our people safe, our assets running and our communities strong. You’ll see the results of many of those efforts in this report.In 2020, we achieved our best year yet in safety despite all of the year’s challenges. We leaned into digital transformation of our permitting and work processes. We continued our community engagement and support in impactful yet different ways.We expanded our commitment to environmental responsibility, setting a goal for all our refining sites to achieve top-third energy efficiency by 2030. We developed meaningful and achievable targets for greenhouse gas emissions that are tied to viable plans and specific projects consistent with our disciplined approach to capital allocation. The targets are detailed in this report.We also distinguished ourselves in how we kept Phillips 66 moving forward into 2021 and preparing for the future.
We announced the Rodeo Renewed project in California, which will convert our San Francisco Refinery into one of the world’s largest renewable fuels facilities, and introduced our new Emerging Energy organization, which is charged with establishing a lower-carbon business platform for Phillips 66. Both of these endeavors demonstrate the important role Phillips 66 has in advancing a lower-carbon future. We are committed to being part of the solution to help the world address climate change.We ended 2020 keenly aware of the vital role we play in the economy. Our diverse workforce comes together every day with ingenuity and focus to bring energy to the world. The commitment of our people enables Phillips 66 to make, transport and sell energy products that help meet the needs of the increasing global population.This report includes our Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures analysis and expanded metrics from industry templates and those Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) segments applicable to our businesses.We value your interest and welcome your feedback. In safety, honor and commitment,WEB-EXCLUSIVE VIDEOHear More From Our 
Chairman and CEOGreg GarlandChairman and CEOGreg GarlandChairman and CEOAbout This Sustainability ReportPhillips 66 has published annual sustainability metrics and information on our website since the 
company was founded in 2012. This year’s report continues that transparency with critical performance data, feedback from our 
stakeholder engagement programs, details on our governance, oversight, policies and programs, acknowledgment of our achievements, and descriptions of our investments and resources that are vital to our company’s long-term sustainability.We have assessed our operations against SASB materiality criteria for Refining, Marketing and Midstream, addressing those most relevant to our business and our stakeholders. A SASB content index is included at the end of this report.We provide analysis and disclosures based on the TCFD framework.We considered industry trade association publications, including: •	The American Petroleum Institute’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting•	The Association of Oil Pipe Lines Corporate Social Risk Management & Reporting•	Recommendations from the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA)We also receive guidance on sustainability strategy and reporting as a member of the Boston College 
Center for Corporate Citizenship.Unless otherwise explicitly stated, this report covers Phillips 66’s performance in 2020 and focuses on outcomes from our operated assets, including our master limited partnership, Phillips 66 Partners LP, and 
WRB Refining LP. Nonoperated joint ventures, such as Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem) and DCP Midstream, LLC, publish sustainability reports on their websites for interested readers.A detailed look at our culture, workforce metrics and benefits can be found in our Human Capital Management Report, while details of our assets and operations can be found in our Year in Review report.A glossary of our terms can be found in Performance Data at the end of this report.Financial information can be found on the Phillips 66 Investors site.CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSThis document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbors created thereby. Words and phrases such as “is anticipated,” “is estimated,” “is expected,” “is planned,” “is scheduled,” “is targeted,” “believes,” “continues,” “intends,” “will,” “would,” “objectives,” “goals,” “projects,” “efforts,” “strategies” and similar expressions are used to identify such forward-looking statements. However, the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements included herein are based on management’s expectations, estimates and projections as of the date they are made. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and you should not unduly rely on them as they involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include: the continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and its negative impact on commercial activity and demand for refined petroleum products; the inability to timely obtain or maintain permits necessary for capital projects; changes to worldwide government policies relating to renewable fuels and greenhouse gas emissions that adversely affect programs like the renewable fuel standards program, low carbon fuel standards and tax credits for biofuels; the pace of technological advances advancements and industry innovation, including those focused on reducing GHG emissions and advancing other climate-related initiatives, and our ability to take advantage of those innovations and advancements; our ability to identify and execute opportunities, including through the positioning and optimization of our assets; our ability to efficiently and economically reduce the carbon intensity of our operations; fluctuations in NGL, crude oil, and natural gas prices, and petrochemical and refining margins; unexpected changes in costs for constructing, modifying or operating our facilities; unexpected difficulties in manufacturing, refining or transporting our products; the level and success of drilling and production volumes around the companies’ assets; risks and uncertainties with respect to the actions of actual or potential competitive suppliers and transporters of refined petroleum products, renewable fuels or specialty products; lack of, or disruptions in, adequate and reliable transportation for NGL, crude oil, natural gas, and refined products; potential liability from litigation or for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations under environmental regulations; failure to complete construction of capital projects on time and within budget; the inability to comply with governmental regulations or make capital expenditures to maintain compliance; limited access to capital or significantly higher cost of capital related to illiquidity or uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets; potential disruption of operations due to accidents, weather events, including as a result of climate change, terrorism or cyberattacks; general domestic and international economic and political developments; changes in governmental policies relating to NGL, crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products, or renewable fuels pricing, regulation or taxation, including exports; changes in estimates or projections used to assess fair value of intangible assets, goodwill and property and equipment and/or strategic decisions with respect to our asset portfolio that cause impairment charges; investments required, or reduced demand for products, as a result of environmental rules and regulations; changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations (including alternative energy mandates); the operation, financing and distribution decisions of equity affiliates we do not control; and other economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting our businesses generally as set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Phillips 66 is under no obligation (and expressly disclaims any such obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 