To our employees, communities and investors, We are pleased to share sustainability highlights from our 2019 operations. We would be remiss, however, if we did so without acknowledging the incredibly challenging start to 2020, which makes the importance of sustainability even clearer. As we undertook collecting, measuring and explaining these disclosures, the world shifted. Global issues — efforts to protect people from the spread of COVID-19, geo-political turmoil in global energy markets, and an oversupply of crude oil — dominated our landscape. Our response was swift, safety-focused and science-based. We have always known our products are essential to global stability and our people provide services that need to be delivered reliably and safely, so we plan relentlessly for emergencies and for the need to pivot quickly. We activated business continuity plans we had prepared and practiced to protect people, the environment and the global systems that depend on our assets — in that order — and kept our operations going uninterrupted. Our governance, social responsibility, focus on safety and environmental stewardship helped us navigate this difficult landscape. We provided emergency operating center expertise and support, donated personal protective equipment, manufactured hand sanitizer, loaned 3-D printers to health care facilities to make masks for their communities and increased our social impact investment. This is sustainability in practice. It will take time for people, communities and economies to recover. The rate of recovery and the lasting impacts are uncertain; however, a few things are clear. We remain committed to making, transporting and selling energy products to the world in a safe, environmentally responsible and economical way. Energy needs and usage have changed continually throughout human history. That change continues, but almost every forecast source shows that our products will continue to play a critical role in meeting the energy needs of the rising global population. This report describes some of our policies, programs and practices that we believe position us to fill this need safely, responsibly and efficiently. Our people demonstrate great leadership, and I believe they are the best in the industry. They focus on safety and care for each other and their communities. Our board of directors reviews our sustainability activities and provides strong leadership. Our company culture emphasizes the greater good, creates an environment of trust with stakeholders, seeks different perspectives and achieves excellence while remaining loyal to our values of safety, honor and commitment. Our strategy of operating excellence, a high-performing organization, disciplined growth and returns, and shareholder distributions is the foundation for our business. It is core to environmental and social sustainability. Additionally, we are proud that we are known as an industry leader in safety, reliability and innovation; in the community, we show up as neighbors, supporters, collaborators and problem solvers. We value your interest and welcome feedback on our report. In safety, honor and commitment, Greg Garland Chairman and CEO June 2020 Phillips 66 At a Glance Corporate Strategy Our corporate strategy is founded on our values of safety, honor and commitment; it is structured to enable us to achieve our vision of providing energy and improving lives. Our strategy assures a sustainable, resilient business and creates long-term stakeholder value. Our priorities are clear. Operating Excellence  Growth Enhancing  Returns Improving  Distributions Achieving  High-Performing Organization  Operating  our portfolio  returns by  financial  Building  with safety,  by capturing  maximizing  strength,  capability,  reliability and  growth  earnings  disciplined  pursuing  environmental  opportunities in  from existing  capital allocation,  excellence and  stewardship  Midstream and  assets and  dividend growth  doing the   while delivering  Chemicals.  investing capital  and share  right thing.  shareholder  efficiently.  repurchases.  value.    We achieved numerous milestones and successes in 2019, and we continue to identify opportunities for improvement. We are pleased to discuss both our achievements and future opportunities in this report. Asset Map LEGEND Phillips 66 and Phillips 66 Partners Asset Phillips 66 Operated Reﬁnery Branded Marketing Footprint 4 Our Approachto Sustainability At Phillips 66, we work to mitigate risk and ensure rigorous governance. The pillars that guide sustainability are integral to our strategy and require proactive, consistent and ongoing effort. They are: our commitment to operating excellence throughout our business, environmental stewardship, social responsibility and engagement, and strong financial performance. Operating Excellence Our Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy grounds our continuous evaluation of our operations in order to maintain and improve safety and reliability. We consistently implement robust governance policies and programs to manage risks across our Midstream, Chemicals, Refining, and Marketing & Specialties businesses and our corporate staff functions. Environmental Stewardship Protecting the environment goes hand in hand with our commitment to operating safely. Companywide, we make proactive investments in assets, including capital and maintenance projects, and we make improvements in operating standards and procedures, and business assurance programs. Business units and functions follow standards, procedures and guidelines, which meet and often exceed regulatory requirements. We make environmental and conservation social impact contributions. Social Responsibility We report our social responsibility from two perspectives: our workforce and external stakeholders. Enhancing education and career training, addressing stakeholder questions and concerns, and supporting safe communities are the foundation of our social responsibility and engagement. Financial Performance Our economic strength comes from our high-quality diversified asset base, safe and reliable operations, strong balance sheet and disciplined approach to capital allocation. Our company policies, programs and practices ensure ethical business and good governance. We expect every one of our approximately 14,500 employees to work for the greater good and to act with integrity. These expectations are central to our philosophy around performance management. Hermann Park Conservancy Volunteer Day, Houston 2019 Photo of restored creek 5 AMERICAN FUEL & PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURERS Industry leading total recordable rate (TRR) of • BAYWAY REFINERY • FERNDALE REFINERY • LAKE CHARLES REFINERY • SANTA MARIA REFINERY 0.15• BORGER REFINERY 4 ENERGY STAR® AWARDS Rodeo facility in San Francisco; Sweeny Refinery in Texas; Ferndale Refinery in Washington; Billings Refinery in Montana for performance in the top 25% of similar facilities nationwide for energy efficiency and meeting environmental performance levels established by the EPA Trinitas Regional Medical Center honored Bayway Refinery with the Humanitarian Award for consistent support and funding for programs, equipment, office needs and toys and clothing for patients in need Safety Excellence Award In Germany, JET® won Best Brand among consumers for the 10th straight year *ICX is the Interactive Customer Experience Named one of Military Times’ Best for Vets Employers Received the Corporate Citizenship Award from Crime Stoppers Houston Forbes: Among America’s Best Large Employers   Texas by Nature 20: best work in conservation from Texas-based company Billings Refinery named as City of Billings EMPLOYER OF CHOICE for businesses with more than 50 employees, for outstanding commitment to the community Ferndale Refinery in Washington Large Business Member of the Year by the Ferndale Chamber of Commerce Association of Washington Business presented the Ferndale Boys & Girls Clubs Refinery with the of Whatcom County Manufacturing Community Excellence All Star Award Award for Green for outstanding Manufacturing for commitment to young going above and people, and a gift to beyond regulatory improve their tech standards to invest in labs and implement efficiency and a county-wide safety upgrades STEM program Lake Charles Manufacturing Complex earned from SOWELA Technical Community College: Excellence in Leadership award for leading innovative workforce programs and Philanthropic Honoree Phillips 66 was awarded the Coast Guard Foundation Honor for Exceptional Support for long.standing and generous corporate support meeting all core areas of impact for Coast Guard members and families, including scholarships and grants, morale and recreation gear, and tragedy assistance and disaster relief This Sustainability Report Phillips 66 was founded in 2012, and since the beginning, we have published annual sustainability metrics and information on our website. More recently, we have enhanced our reporting and added easy-to-download sustainability highlights brochures. This report details our governance, oversight, policies and programs and highlights our sustainability achievements. In short, this report explains what we do and why, with examples of how we do it. Unless otherwise explicitly stated, this report covers Phillips 66’s performance in 2019 and focuses on outcomes from our operated assets, including our master limited partnership, Phillips 66 Partners. Non-operated joint ventures, such as Chevron Phillips Chemical Company and DCP Midstream, publish publicly available sustainability reports, and interested readers may consult those firms’ webpages. In addition to providing critical performance data and describing the investments and resources that we believe are vital to the long-term sustainability of our business, this report also reflects feedback from our stakeholder engagement programs and processes, along with our review of, and adherence to, many standards and best practices put forth by organizations in the sustainability field. • We have assessed our operations against Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) materiality criteria, addressing those that are most relevant to our business and our stakeholders. We provide a SASB content index in the last chapter of this report. • We have incorporated here our updated Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in the Climate Change and TCFD Analysis chapter. • We considered industry trade association publications, including the American Petroleum Institute’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, the Association of Oil Pipe Lines’ Corporate Social Risk Management & Reporting, and recommendations from the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA). • Phillips 66 also receives guidance on sustainability strategy and reporting as a member of the Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship. We manufacture, transport and market the products and energy that help people go farther and faster, fly higher, dream bigger and live more productive lives. Beaumont Terminal Governance Rigorous, consistent corporate governance practices contribute positively to long-term shareholder value. Our governance and ethics are robust, and they underpin every level and aspect of the organization. Board & Managerial Oversight Our board of directors and executive leadership team are committed to ethical business practices, which are premised on our company values. Our board regularly reviews evolving corporate governance best practices, changing regulatory requirements and feedback from shareholders, and authorizes actions it believes are in the best interest of Phillips 66 and its shareholders. Our Public Policy Committee, comprised of all board members, oversees the company’s long-term business objectives and global reputation, focusing on company compliance with policies and practices related to HSE protection and identifying environmental, social as well as political trends and risks. The Audit & Finance Committee monitors our enterprise-wide risk management program and our controls, compliance and ethics. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee (HRCC) of the Board oversees our executive compensation programs that drive and reward performance and behaviors, and oversees the company’s succession planning practices. The diversity in talent and composition of our board of directors augments this governance. Our board is 30% female and 90% independent. Every member has served for fewer than 10 years with Phillips 66, which is a positive factor in managing risk and performance, according to data-backed research published on the Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation website. We also maintain strong governance through written policies and auditing programs throughout the company and our supply chain. For ease of reference, many of our key policies and governing documents, including board governance documents and charters, can be found online and listed at the end of this chapter. These, and many other written procedures and controls, set the standards that guide our actions and ensure the highest levels of responsibility, integrity and compliance across our businesses. Phillips 66 Board of Directors Culture The Phillips 66 culture is built on our values of safety, honor and commitment. Each employee upholds these values with a sense of integrity and purpose. The backgrounds and experiences of our diverse teams sustain our vibrant culture and reflect who we are, the environment we create, how we work together and the results we deliver. We work for the greater good, create an environment of trust, seek different perspectives and strive to achieve excellence. Our workforce is evolving, and our business is transforming and growing, enabling us to purposefully shape our culture to adapt to change. After gathering input from our employees and learning about how they experience our culture, we developed a set of behaviors that both preserve the best of who we are and challenge us to improve. These simple, practical and intuitive behaviors were rolled out companywide in 2019 as “Our Energy in Action.” Leadership and management across the company led the adoption, and we are actively embedding Our Energy in Action into all talent and business processes to drive accountability. Our Energy in Action We embrace our values  We depend on each  We create space for  as a common bond.  other to do our jobs.  possibilities.  Work for  Create an  Seek  the greater  environment  different  good.  of trust.  perspectives.  Living our values  earns us the confidence  of our business partners,  Trusting each other  Championing inclusion  communities and  makes us more  enables us to innovate  co-workers.  productive and agile.  and thrive.  EVERY PHILLIPS 66 EMPLOYEE IS EXPECTED TO: • Comply with all laws, regulations and company policies • Maintain ethical behavior • Demonstrate the principles of Our Energy in Action • Report any suspected misconduct, illegal activity, fraud, abuse of company assets or other violation of ethical standards • Submit an annual ethics compliance certification We challenge ourselves and never settle. Achieve excellence. Continuing to improve ensures we deliver extraordinary performance. Ethics and Business Conduct At Phillips 66, we are proud of the work we do and how we do it. We do not compromise our integrity. We recognize that questions can arise in today’s increasingly complex global business environment. Therefore, our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct describes our operating guidelines and ties our company’s values to the way we make decisions. Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct covers topics including, but not limited to, human rights, conflicts of interest, discrimination, harassment, confidentiality, anti-bribery, anti-boycott, employee grievances, insider trading, competition and fair dealing. All employees, including management, participate in annual training, during which they must attest that they will comply with the code. Phillips 66’s senior financial officers adhere to both this and a supplemental code of ethics. Both codes can be found on our website. “It is our responsibility to uphold our code — to set a high standard for ourselves and be seen by our peers, customers, business partners, investors and communities as a company that does the right thing, always.” – Greg Garland, Chairman and CEO  The code references human rights and our stance against human trafficking. We recognize and respect the dignity of all human beings. We believe business has a role in promoting respect for human rights throughout the world. We embrace the right of all people to live their lives free from social, political or economic discrimination or abuse. Our human rights position is informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our core value of honor means we choose business partners objectively and fairly and act with honesty in all business dealings with them. In turn, our business partners are expected to work with Phillips 66 employees in a way that upholds our standards. Business partners and suppliers who enter into contracts with Phillips 66 are expected to comply with contractual obligations and the expectations laid out in our Business Partner Principles of Conduct. Company Ethics We are committed to the highest ethical standards because we want people in our communities and elsewhere to know they can count on us. Employees, suppliers and customers are all empowered through our whistleblower program to raise questions or concerns about our operations and business practices without fear of punishment. They are expected to report behaviors that they believe violate the company Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. Various federal and state laws provide legal protection to certain types of whistleblowers. Additionally, Phillips 66 has a policy of nonretaliation, which helps foster an ethical workplace and a culture of integrity. The Ethics Office telephone and web-based HelpLines are confidential and operated by a third party. Both are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, and are staffed by representatives fluent in many languages. Employees, contractors, suppliers and community members can access the HelpLine toll-free from any location around the world, or they can file a report online. Employees and others making reports are encouraged to identify themselves, but they may choose to remain anonymous. One indicator of confidence in the independence and integrity of our ethics program is a decline in the percentage of incidents reported anonymously. Of the 218 reports made in 2019, 62% of reporters felt comfortable identifying themselves. This is a 6% increase in self-identified reports from 2018. Reports are entered directly onto an independent, secure server and are not traced. Reports are shared only with the specific people designated to handle the issue. Any potential violation of our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct or other company policies is brought to the attention of the Global Compliance and Ethics Office and handled through our reporting process. This includes all potential violations reported through HelpLine calls, online reports and in-person accounts. Led by our chief compliance officer, our Compliance and Ethics Office personnel are trained to conduct investigations into potential violations. Phillips 66 Human Resources professionals also are trained to assist or lead investigations. All allegations are investigated, and appropriate action is taken based on the findings. Issues involving a violation of regulation, law or the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct are reported to the board of directors’ Audit and Finance Committee. Political and Public Policy Process Phillips 66 participates in the legislative and regulatory policy development and political process legally, responsibly and ethically to serve the best interests of our shareholders, workforce and other stakeholders. Our operations are highly regulated and are affected by actions at many levels of government. Our public policy activities include education and advocacy efforts at the local, state and federal government levels. We are committed to complying with all applicable state and federal rules on lobbying and disclosures. Our Political Giving and Activity Policy governs our actions in the political and public policy process. Policy List Our values and purpose are demonstrated in everything we do. Below are links to company policies, information and key governance documents that guide our business every day. GOVERNANCE 2019 Annual Report 2020 Proxy Statement Audit & Finance Committee Charter Code of Business Ethics & Conduct Code of Ethics for the Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers Company Bylaws Corporate Governance Guidelines Executive Committee Charter Human Resources & Compensation Committee Charter Nominating & Governance Committee Charter Public Policy Committee Charter POLICIES & POSITIONS Business Partner Principles of Conduct Equal Employment Opportunity Position Health, Safety & Environment Policy Health, Safety & Environmental Management System Human Rights Position Philanthropy Grant Application Process Phillips 66 Employment Benefits Phillips 66 U.K. Modern Slavery Statement Political Giving and Activity Policy Supplier Diversity Position Supply Chain Transparency Workplace Diversity Position DATA AND COMMUNITY AWARENESS 2019 Fact Book Gray Oak Pipeline website News Releases Phillips 66 Partners LP website Pipeline Awareness & Safety 811 website Safety Data Sheets Securities & Exchange Commission Filings OTHER POLICIES Phillips 66 Partners Senior Officer Code of Conduct Phillips 66 Partners Audit Committee Charter 