Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures AnalysisGOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT OF 
CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIESAt Phillips 66, risk management starts with our entire board of directors and its committees providing oversight of strategic planning. Our governance structure provides the board and executive leadership the necessary opportunities to exercise their oversight responsibilities with respect to risks, including those related to climate change.The board reviews long-term energy outlooks and leading indicators on an annual basis. The Audit and Finance Committee monitors our enterprisewide risk management program on a more frequent basis. It also reviews company controls, compliance and ethics. The board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee considers environmental, social and political trends and risks to guide the company’s long-term business objectives.STRATEGYAs the energy sources that people rely on continue to evolve, Phillips 66’s strategic planning incorporates this shift to proactively position for the future.Today, the world population is roughly 7.7 billion, yet United Nations data shows that more than 840 million people have little or no access to electricity. The global population is expected to increase to 8.5 billion people by 2030 (10% increase) and 9.7 billion by 2050 (26% increase). The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) reference case includes global energy use increasing almost 50% by 2050. The rising global population, coupled with increases in standards of living, will increase pressure on Earth’s resources and have implications for the energy transition.Demand for all sources of energy, including nonfossil fuel sources, is forecast to increase.Yet, despite increased demand from growing global populations, future oil demand is mitigated by increased fuel efficiency and other technological advances. See the Total Global Liquids Intensity and Demand chart.Our analysis considers a range of scenarios, including the International Energy Agency (IEA) Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS), which presents itself as aligned with the Paris Agreement and requires drivers other than market forces, and the International Energy Agency’s Net Zero by 2050 scenario. Several scenarios are used as we identify signposts. We then review the strategy in light of these scenarios and develop potential responses. These include portfolio review, capital allocation, mergers and acquisitions, other opportunities, technology commercialization, carbon capture and sequestration.The range of scenarios gives us a view of market fundamentals, regulatory development and the level of uncertainty. The IEA Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) provides a planning basis to retain sustaining capital and focus growth in lower-carbon opportunities, such as the Rodeo Renewed conversion, which is consistent with the range of scenarios. Management and the board utilize the scenarios as a consideration in business planning.Effects on Our AssetsThe potential physical effects of climate change and severe weather on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present. We have systems in place to manage potential acute physical risks, including those that may be caused by climate change, but if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. Examples of potential physical risks include floods, hurricane-force winds, wildfires, freezing temperatures and snowstorms, as well as rising sea levels at our coastal facilities. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to protect our assets from physical risks and to employ processes to the extent available to mitigate such risks.Many of our facilities are located near coastal areas. As a result, extreme weather and rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to operate these facilities or transport crude oil, refined petroleum, or petrochemical and plastics products. Extended periods of such disruption could negatively affect our operations. We could also incur substantial costs to prevent or repair damage to these facilities. Finally, depending on the severity and duration of any extreme weather events or climate conditions, our operations may need to be modified and material costs incurred, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results 
of operations.Climate Change Risks to Our Business•	Physical environmental factors, risks associated with weather or climate, and our efforts and ability to measure, report and control GHG emissions•	The impact of energy accords (regional or global) and related forecasts of program impacts and costs•	Financial variables, including the likely location, scale and duration of all tax regimes, including carbon taxes•	Evolving investor opinions and initiatives•	Community, cultural, political and public opinion factors that could influence where, when and how we operate and at what cost•	Demographic, scientific, technological, reputational and human capital matters•	Trade leakage, which can result when imported goods transfer trade from one jurisdiction to anotherFINANCIAL PLANNING AND 
SCENARIO ANALYSISWe consider long-term energy demand scenarios in our corporate strategy planning. Our process uses various information and methods to develop a range of forecasts to inform our capital allocation decisions and enable sustainable, resilient operations. For more details, see Risk Management in this report. We consider metrics for our key strategic, physical and policy variables within our scenarios to help factor key climate policy, energy mix, energy efficiency, access to capital, tax, reputational, technological, and human capital risks and opportunities into our decision-making processes.The applicability of this strategy and planning to lower-carbon scenarios appears in several ways. As a result of our scenario planning, we are investing in infrastructure to transport energy products and meet global needs. We are converting a facility to make lower-carbon fuels and expanding renewable fuels production at a second site. Our business model includes engine and fuel optimization, pipeline energy optimization, refinery efficiency optimization, instrumentation and controls upgrades, heat recovery hardware, and energy dashboards that enable facility operators to make real-time decisions that improve energy efficiency. Growth spending in refining is typically a small percentage of our 
overall capital budget.THE BOARD’S PUBLIC POLICY 
AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE•	Reviews compliance with health, safety and environmental (HSE) matters and impacts of environmental and social trends and uncertainties•	Reviews exposure to and management of environmental, social and political trends and risk, including climate risk•	Reviews and makes recommendations on the company’s compliance with policies, programs and practices regarding HSE protection, government relations and political contributions, philanthropy and sustainability matters•	Reviews the company’s global reputation as a corporate citizen in the communities in which 
we operate16PRIMARY ENERGY DEMAND BY FUEL TYPE(Billion Tonnes of Oil Equivalent)20181614121086420..Biomass..Wind/Solar..Bioenergy..Hydro..Nuclear..Natural Gas..Oil*..Coal2010.2019.2025.2030.2040Source: IEA-World Energy Outlook-November 2020
*Oil includes oil products, NGLs, biofuelsGLOBAL OIL DEMANDTOTAL GLOBAL LIQUIDS INTENSITY AND DEMAND(MMBD)120100806040200(MMBD)0.600.500.400.300.200.10012011010090807060BOE Demand/$1,000 of GDP12000.2005.2010.2015.2020.2025.2030.2035.20401990.	2000.	.  2010.	    2020            2030.2040..IHS Markit 2.21/May 20 LT..OPEC 2.21..IEA STEPS 3.21..IEA SDS 3.21..Total Liquids Intensity 	..IEA Global Oil Demand- SDS (RHS)..IEA Global Oil Demand- STEPS (RHS)(LHS)Sources: IEA, World Energy Outlook, November 2020; Oxford Economics
(1) IEA STEPS for Global Total Liquids Demand forecastSource: IEA, World Energy Outlook 2020, November 202017PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
GOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATAENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCE
CORE COMPONENTS OF 
PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT 1. Mitigating physical risks 
Phillips 66 operations are affected by nature — droughts and floods, 
hurricanes and storms, heat and cold, and shifting tectonic plates. We have substantial systems and processes to help us identify, measure, manage and mitigate risks associated with each of these possibilities. 2. Forecasting policy risks 
We are subject to changing laws, regulations and judicial opinions; community, national and global preferences; and contractual obligations. We have developed sophisticated, multilevel, integrated 
systems to anticipate, inform and shape, and manage and comply with these requirements and expectations. For clarity, we include here cybersecurity risks, recognizing cybersecurity can span policy and technology.3. Seeking technology opportunity 
As an energy company focused on both the present and the future, we realize the value of our in-house, 
cutting-edge research and development center staffed with scientists and engineers. This differentiator enables us to create solutions to current and future physical or policy risk challenges. Our Energy Research & Innovation (ERI) team members analyze and develop technologies and evaluate feasibility, economics, scalability, key milestones and timing. They find ways to increase clean product yields and overall energy efficiency; make our operations safer, more reliable and more sustainable; reduce water risks and other environmental impacts; and manage changing regulations and expectations, including climate. The solutions we develop benefit our company, our customers and our communities. For more details, see Research in this report.18Risk OverviewTo support planning and management, we break down risks into short-, medium-, and long-term. We assess the materiality of climate-related risks based on their likelihood of occurrence and the estimated magnitude of the resulting financial impact. The materiality assessment is substantially similar to that which the company applies to all business risks and opportunities. SHORT-TERM RISKSMEDIUM-TERM RISKSLONG-TERM RISKSMay impact near-term financial results, including any that may materialize within the current annual reporting cycleMay materially impact our financial results due to longer-term manifestations of climate-related impacts that may require us to significantly adjust our strategy, including those that may materialize over a two- to five-year time frameMay fundamentally impact the viability of our long-term strategy and business model, including those that may materialize over a five- to 10-year time frameEmissions (Regulatory and Market Transition Risk) Our industry is highly regulated, and we comply with the many local, state and federal laws that affect our operations, including air emissions. Our Health, Safety and Environment Management System (HSEMS) facilitates HSE performance and compliance with standards, procedures and guidelines that often exceed regulatory requirements and are consistently applied by all business units. Business Continuity 
(Physical Risk) The company is prepared for 
the possibility of extreme weather events that might impact our operations. We have developed an Emergency Response Management System and Crisis Management Plan based on risk evaluations and business impact analyses. Each facility has a written emergency response plan to ensure continuous availability, or prompt recovery, of critical business processes, resources and facility operations. Oil and Natural Gas Prices (Market Transition and Regulatory Risk)The deployment of disruptive new technologies at mass scale within government policy environments that strongly incentivize investment and innovation would have long-term impacts on oil and natural 
gas prices.To mitigate this risk, Phillips 66 remains committed to ongoing scenario analysis, responsible risk management, and transparency about our financial and portfolio resilience and how we are preparing to adapt for the longer term.We have made significant investments in environmental projects, including efforts to reduce emissions that focus on efficiency, resilience, adaptation and renewable fuels. For more details, see Risk Management in this report.Emissions (Regulatory and Market Transition Risk)Although it is not possible to predict how future GHG emissions legislation would impact the company’s business, legislation or regulation that emerges over the medium- to long-term that imposes reporting obligations on, or limits emissions of GHGs from, the company’s equipment and operations could require the company to incur costs to reduce GHG emissions associated with our operations.19PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOPERATING EXCELLENCEGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPRISK MANAGEMENT Some planning activities are highly proprietary because companies’ analyses can create advantages over competitors. However, the processes are shareable.As we learned in 2020, it is impossible to predict the future. At Phillips 66, we use a detailed and disciplined process to identify potential risks and opportunities that could significantly impact our business.Enterprise Risk ManagementOur enterprise risk management program provides a systematic approach to identifying and understanding significant risks, including climate-related issues, changes in energy policy, and physical or operational risks. Our strategic planning and scenario planning seek to manage our businesses’ risks while evaluating opportunities to execute our strategy. Management directs, and the board oversees, the enterprise risk management program and processes.Identifying Climate RisksExperts from all areas of our business units and functions — including research, planning, finance, treasury, economics, tax, refining, midstream, marketing, specialties, legal, compliance, government affairs, community relations and Environment, Social and Governance — are members or supporters of our risk management program and processes. Our risk management team works to identify risks falling into any of the categories described above that could affect our overall policies and governance, strategy development, business units, predictions and capital allocation decisions, among others. In our program: •	We quantify the risks based on our assessment of the probability of that risk and the potential significance of its financial, reputational or 
other impacts.•	We assess each of these risks in light of potential mitigating strategies or factors that may be available.•	We assign values to each mitigating factor based on assessments of potential timing, costs, effectiveness and other features.•	We include assessments of potential GHG emissions policies and impacts. Each of these risks has a corporate owner to create accountability within our organization. Our risk management team provides detailed, regular, timely and relevant information to our board of directors and executive leadership team. This information is one of many valuable inputs that enables our board of directors and its committees to oversee and guide our company. We test our assumptions against carbon dioxide (CO2) cost forecasting, energy efficiency indices and best practices, carbon capture technology and cost, and renewable fuels forecasts, alongside regulatory requirements. Data on our GHG emissions, legal requirements regulating such emissions, and the possible physical effects of climate change on our assets are incorporated into our planning, investment and risk management decision-making. We account for anticipated GHG emissions in designing and developing facilities and projects. We implement energy efficiency initiatives that also reduce GHG emissions. Regulatory certainty and economic viability are integral considerations. We test a variety of future scenarios that could have a material impact on the company and variables that may be associated with an incident. This system ensures we mitigate risk to the company and conduct regular gap analyses. It also enables us to position the company to benefit from energy efficiency, emissions reductions and other business and policy goals. PROCESSES FOR MANAGING CLIMATE RISKSEfficienciesWe invest in efficiency gains to ensure long-term resilience.Energy expenditures can account for roughly 15% of a refinery’s operating expenses. We capitalize on opportunities such as improvements in heat exchange or recovery, furnace controls, and steam optimization. Since our inception in 2012, six of our 11 U.S. refineries have earned U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ENERGY STAR® certification. In 2020, the Ferndale Refinery in Washington was awarded its seventh star in eight years. Refineries earn ENERGY STAR® certifications when they perform in the top 25% of similar facilities nationwide for energy efficiency and meet EPA performance levels.  Additionally, seven of our refineries have associated cogeneration units. Cogeneration is the use of a single fuel source to produce both electricity and heat simultaneously. The process helps us meet our manufacturing needs and converts heat that would otherwise be lost into thermal energy to power our process equipment. Three cogeneration units — at Los Angeles and San Francisco in California and Sweeny in Texas — are owned by Phillips 66. Any excess power not used in our facilities is sold to the local utility market. Four other refineries — in the Texas Panhandle, New Jersey, Washington state and the United Kingdom — purchase part of their waste heat steam from, or electricity generated at, third-party-owned cogeneration units adjacent to our facilities.  We have an active Energy Best Practices network of representatives from all our refineries and major corporate support groups, including Refining Business Improvement, Energy Research & Innovation and Information Technology. Members of the network meet regularly to share information about technology, experiences at their plants and ongoing energy conservation projects. We also achieved Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certification for our headquarters building in Houston, Texas.  Access to water, maintaining its quality and using it efficiently are all critical elements in sustainable energy production. Therefore, our facilities have wastewater systems and oil recovery units. These units separate reusable water from oil streams, which reduces freshwater use and improves discharged water quality.Resilience and AdaptationWe maintain and test robust business continuity planning and preparedness programs and other initiatives: •	We harden assets to enhance their reliability, including our industry-leading pipeline river crossing program; heightened levees at Alliance Refinery in Belle Chasse, Louisiana; and the power substation elevation at Bayway Refinery in Linden, New Jersey.•	We installed a state-of-the-art power distribution facility at Wood River Refinery in Roxana, Illinois, improving facility reliability and reducing flaring from unplanned events. •	Our pipeline business provides comprehensive community awareness, education and outreach programs to ensure that everyone living or working near lines or facilities is aware of their existence, adopts safe digging practices, learns the signs of a potential pipeline leak and knows how to respond quickly if a problem is suspected. OpportunitiesIn 2021, the company introduced a new organization, Emerging Energy, to help build a lower-carbon sustainable business platform for Phillips 66 by leveraging our existing capabilities and advancing investments in new energy technologies. Emerging Energy will focus on renewable fuels, battery value chain, carbon capture and hydrogen opportunities.We currently commercialize premium coke for the world’s lithium-ion battery anode market using petroleum coke, a proprietary byproduct of our refining process.  We’re increasing our supply of renewable fuels through ventures with other companies and evaluating our assets. We continue to assess new opportunities within our portfolios and with third parties. While doing so, we remain focused on operating reliability.The company is also assessing longer-term technologies, including carbon capture and sequestration, lower-carbon hydrogen production for multiple applications, and the development of hydrogen fueling networks.  ResearchTechnology development and deployment are needed to provide energy today and to achieve energy transition goals. We enhance our business programs and initiatives with research to improve our operations and provide a science-based approach. Phillips 66 is one of the only downstream energy companies with in-house research and development. 
In addition to supporting current operations, 
our research and development organization also supports a lower-carbon future by commercializing new technologies.More than 250 scientists and engineers work at our 440-acre Phillips 66 Research Center in Bartlesville, Oklahoma. They help enhance the safety and reliability of our operations and develop air, water and energy solutions, including battery technology, organic (carbon-based) photovoltaic solar materials and solid oxide fuel cells, which can be used for the storage or production of electricity. Phillips 66 has 119 active U.S. patents in the areas of specialty carbon, premium coke, low-carbon hydrogen, solid oxide fuel cells, carbon capture and sequestration, organic photovoltaics and biofuels, as of Jan. 31, 2021.Battery Fuel for EVsAs the world becomes increasingly electrified, Phillips 66’s battery program is focused on improving existing lithium-ion battery materials and developing options around next-generation battery technologies. Emerging Energy will focus on renewable fuels, battery value chain, carbon capture and hydrogen opportunities.We are researching alternatives that incorporate readily available, responsibly sourced materials and have the potential to extend the driving range for EVs. In February 2021, we launched a technical collaboration with battery-maker Faradion to develop lower-cost and higher-performing anode materials for sodium-ion batteries that can be used in heavy-duty vehicles. This power-storage technology has an advantage because it uses materials that are sustainable and widely available. The collaboration is expected to leverage our experience developing specialty carbon materials and Faradion’s work as a leader in sodium-ion battery technology. Applications for this technology include mobility, stationary storage, backup power and energy in remote locations. We manufacture premium and anode coke used to make EV lithium-ion batteries. As a result, we are a premier market supplier for this key component of lithium-ion batteries, which help power products from EVs to millions of smartphones and other consumer electronics.Organic Photovoltaics (OPVs)OPV is a clean energy technology for electricity generation that will enable new solar applications. Our focus is on developing OPVs that will be profitable and commercially viable. We have collaborated with the Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratories on OPVs.OPV research aligns with Phillips 66’s expertise in plastics, materials science and analytical sciences. Due to its flexible and lightweight structure, OPVs will produce electricity in applications where traditional solar cells will not work, including transparent applications, portable objects and disposable goods. There are also options for improving aesthetics with color, flexibility and design.Our polymer-based single-junction OPV cells do not contain components such as lead or cadmium. Our polymers have led to breakthroughs in efficiency and longevity that help move solar technology closer to widespread commercial viability.In 2020, we expanded our solar intellectual property portfolio to include 12 additional patents, bringing our total in this field to 49. We are also working to tailor our proprietary ShieldPower™ OPV materials to the performance criteria of commercial OPV printers with the goal of seeing our materials used in commercial OPV panels.Solid Oxide Fuel Cells (SOFCs)  Phillips 66 has made significant technical progress in solid oxide fuel cells and holds eight U.S. patents and 22 U.S. pending patent applications in our SOFC intellectual property portfolio. In 2020, we published our patented SOFCs fabrication technique and research data in a technical article in the Journal of the American Ceramic Society. A field demonstration of this technology was installed at a Phillips 66 pipeline and has been in operation since July 2020.SOFCs are electrochemical cells that generate electricity efficiently by oxidizing a fuel, such as natural gas, through electrochemical reactions rather than combustion. Each Phillips 66 fuel cell is less than half a millimeter thick and produces approximately 30 watts of electricity. Cells can be stacked together, and stacks can be bundled into modules. Phillips 66 SOFCs can generate electricity at high efficiencies from an abundant, reliable and inexpensive fuel source with twice the efficiency of conventional power plants. They can be paired with solar- or wind-generated power, ensuring reliable energy even during periods when the sun is not shining or the wind is not blowing. SOFCs produce no noise, have a 50% lower-carbon footprint than conventional power plants, have no combustion emissions and are an ideal technology for CO2 capture. Their quiet, compact, modular design makes SOFCs a convenient source for on-site power for homes and businesses, ensuring reliable energy even during traditional power grid outages.In January 2021, we announced that Phillips 66 was awarded a $3 million grant from the U.S. Department of Energy to advance high-performance reversible solid oxide fuel cells (RSOFC). In collaboration with the Georgia Institute of Technology, we will work to demonstrate the commercial feasibility of a low-cost, highly efficient reversible solid oxide fuel cell system for hydrogen and electricity generation. METRICSThe majority of our GHG emissions are from refining. Our goal is to improve our operational excellence, improve our energy efficiency and reduce our GHG emissions intensity.We use a third-party industry manufacturing 
energy efficiency index to measure our progress on efficiency.  In 2020, our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHGs were 25.5 million and 4.6 million tonnes CO2 equivalent (CO2e), respectively. The scope 3 GHG emissions from the products we manufactured in 2020 were 313 million tonnes CO2e. Our refineries process a combined average of more than 2 million barrels of crude oil into clean, affordable everyday products. Most of our Scope 1 GHG emissions are CO2, which result from manufacturing energy products. More stringent regulatory standards can require more processing, which takes more energy. Our methane emissions are negligible. In years with full utilization, direct GHG emissions vary little on an absolute basis, despite more stringent regulatory standards.TARGETS We intend to reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity from our operations and energy products by 2030 by setting impactful, attainable and measurable targets. We plan to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions intensity from operations by 30% and Scope 3 emissions intensity of our energy products by 15%, below 2019 levels.At Phillips 66, 
we use a detailed and disciplined process to identify potential risks and opportunities that could significantly 
impact our business.20Ferndale RefineryFERNDALE, WAFerndale Refinery: 
Focused on EfficiencyThe Phillips 66 Ferndale Refinery in Washington state is 
a model for energy performance on the West Coast. The 105,000-barrel-per-day refinery on Washington’s Puget Sound has earned seven EPA ENERGY STAR® certifications in eight years. That’s the most in the West Coast region since the certification program began in 2006. The Energy Information Agency reports that there were 135 U.S. oil refineries operating in 2020, and Ferndale was one of only eight to receive a 2020 ENERGY STAR® certification.  Ferndale is dedicated to energy performance, with detailed oversight, ongoing stewardship, a comprehensive capital upgrade program, and a site culture that strives for continuous improvement. In addition, every project at the refinery is reviewed for energy efficiency improvements.The refinery recently installed a hydrotreater to help meet stricter gasoline standards and provide additional energy efficiencies around heat recovery and reuse. These new efficiencies build on previous improvements, such as the significant energy efficiency boost in 2012 when a vacuum steam generator was installed, allowing the refinery to recover previously wasted heat and turn it into steam energy.21GOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCEOrganic solar cell research
Phillips 66 Research CenterBARTLESVILLE, OK23PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOPERATING EXCELLENCEGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPFuel cell research
Phillips 66 Research CenterBARTLESVILLE, OKWEB-EXCLUSIVE VIDEOSolid Oxide Fuel Cells and the 
Phillips 66 Research Center 24FURTHERING OUR COMMITMENT TO THE ENERGY TRANSITIONWe announced enhancements to our employee bonus plan, the Variable Cash Incentive Program (VCIP), for the 2021 performance year.While maintaining our focus on safety and operating excellence, we increased the weighting of our environmental metrics, which now include lower-carbon and GHG priorities, in the calculation of the annual incentive program payouts. This change helps further align and measure our performance, drive our behaviors and hold us accountable 
to our investors and stakeholders’
evolving expectations.EXECUTE PLANNED AND FUTURE PROJECTS THAT:•	Improve energy efficiency of our operations and target top-third efficiency in our refineries by 2030•	Grow production and blending of renewable fuels and lower-carbon supply chain products such as premium coke and lubricants•	Produce commercial-scale low-carbon-intensity hydrogen•	Capture carbon from our operations•	Increase renewable power sources to use in our operations•	Support enterprise growth and portfolio optimizationSCOPE 1 AND 2 MANUFACTURING-RELATED EMISSIONS INTENSITY(CO2e Metric Tons/MBOE)37.236.725.730%Reduction from 20192030
Target2019
Baseline2020
ActualSCOPE 3 PRODUCT-RELATED EMISSIONS INTENSITY(CO2e Metric Tons/MBOE)37437131515%Learn more about our targets here.Reduction from 20192030
Target2019
Actual2019
BaselineSee Footnote 8 in the Performance Data Notes25PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOPERATING EXCELLENCEGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOperating ExcellenceClifton Ridge Marine TerminalSULPHUR, LA26Our goal is for everyone who works at or visits our facilities to go home safely every day. 27PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCEGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Operating excellence, including personal and process safety, environmental stewardship and asset reliability, is critical to meeting our corporate strategy of growth, returns 
and distributions.In 2020, we achieved record safety and environmental performance. But we are not resting on those achievements.We work 24/7/365, and although our work can be complex, we are determined to be the energy industry’s safest and most reliable company. We believe that a zero-process-safety-incident- and zero-injury-workplace is achievable. Safety is not defined by the absence of failure but by the presence of safeguards. We are committed to protecting the health and safety of everyone at our work sites and in the communities where we operate. This priority is embodied in our investment in asset maintenance and integrity and in our HSE policies, programs and procedures.We proactively perform focused audits on major work activities such as energy isolation, startup/shutdown activities, turnaround events, procedures and human performance tools. Our business units complete an annual report on risks, including a list of corrective actions to address risks identified and closed during the year. In addition, business unit managers verify compliance with company risk management requirements. The reports are reviewed and signed off by each subsequent level of management. Ultimately, a complete report containing the status of risk items throughout the company is developed, reviewed with Chairman and CEO Greg Garland and summarized for the Public Policy and Sustainability Committee.Safety and environmental performance are part of our compensation structure for executives and all employees. We measure ourselves against the best performers in our industry and target top-quartile performance in safety, environmental stewardship and effective management of unplanned downtime.Policies and Management SystemsOur HSE policy defines our commitment to protecting our employees, contractors, customers and communities while achieving our goals for growth, returns and distributions. We integrate our health, occupational safety, process safety and environmental stewardship principles throughout our businesses, with a commitment to continuous improvement that minimizes our potential impact on our neighbors and the environment. We also consult with stakeholders on environmental issues.The HSEMS provides the framework to reduce risks and improve performance while establishing a continuous improvement process for policy implementation, leadership expectations and core values. The HSEMS guides our entire workforce, including labor and management, experienced workers, new hires, contractors, and subcontractors. The HSEMS focuses on operating excellence and facilitates HSE performance and compliance with key standards, procedures and guidelines. Our rules apply to all of our business units and are often stricter than regulatory requirements. Core standards include reporting, metrics, crisis management, emergency response, due diligence, incident investigation, risk assessment and corporate auditing. Our rigorous auditing protocols enable us to assess our performance and progress frequently. On-site inspections are conducted by both third-party auditors and Phillips 66 internal auditors trained to recognize health and safety best practices. All deviations are investigated and corrected.  All Phillips 66 sites have HSE controls and practices and HSE management and staff dedicated to excellence and risk mitigation. Our Senior Vice President of HSE and Projects has direct responsibility for the HSEMS and reports directly to the chief operating officer. HSE considerations are embedded into every task and business decision. Two principles that guide all employees and contractors working within our facilities are taking the time to work safely and having the right to speak up and stop work if a safety concern is identified. Everyone working at or visiting our sites is empowered, and required, to stop any work they believe poses a risk to themselves, the people around them or the environment. We train our workforce to “stop when unsure.” No employee or contractor will ever receive negative consequences for using their stop-work authority in good faith, even if it turns out that there wasn’t actually a hazard. Employees and contractors are rewarded through the company’s Good Catch program. It’s another way we hold ourselves accountable for everyone’s safety every day.Safety PerformanceOur safety culture, comprehensive HSE policies, management systems and the commitment of everyone who worked for us resulted in an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Total Recordable Rate (TRR) of 0.11 in 2020, which is a significant decrease from our industry-leading 2019 TRR of 0.15. It is also 30 times lower than the 2019 U.S. manufacturing average. Phillips 66 won three AFPM Distinguished Safety Awards in 2020. The award given to our Lake Charles, Ponca City and Santa Maria refineries recognizes sites with outstanding safety performance, program innovation and safety leadership. SAFETY MEETINGS, SUMMITS AND TRAININGEach of our sites conducts a monthly safety committee meeting. Employees, managers and union representatives review goals and safety practices. They also audit results and work together to keep an open dialogue focused on continuous improvement. In addition to providing continuing education opportunities, these meetings enable knowledge- sharing from experts such as industrial hygienists, safety specialists and process safety representatives. We have more frequent meetings within our field staff groups and perform job safety analyses for each field job.We periodically host large-scale company training summits. This is an opportunity to gather people from every health and safety committee in the company to share best practices, goals and performance milestones. In addition, attendees gain new techniques, skills and knowledge that can be implemented at their home facility. The summits also encourage union leaders and Phillips 66 management to maintain an open dialogue and speak with a unified voice about safety. We also hold periodic contractor safety summits with all our major contracting companies to set expectations and goals, share best practices and keep lines of communication open. Our last contractor safety summit was in 2019. We are planning the next summit soon.AUDITS AND INSPECTIONSOur facilities are subject to rigorous internal and external audits and government inspections, and our operations are managed to ensure continued asset integrity. HSE performance is verified through robust assurance processes that involve corporate staff and business unit employees. Each business unit establishes and maintains auditing processes to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of HSE controls and compliance with legal requirements and standards of operation. Joint ventures, partnerships and contractors are all included in the auditing process. There are hundreds of audits conducted each year across our assets. These include site inspections, corporate HSE audits at least once every three years, refinery operating excellence audits, trade association assessments and third-party safety audits. Audits are documented and include a process for communicating results to management and provisions for periodic review and corrective actions.We are also involved in numerous industry improvement and standard-setting committees of the American Petroleum Institute (API), American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) and the Association of Oil Pipe Lines (AOPL). Our facilities follow industry-leading quality management systems, and many are certified to international standards. These efforts have made our sector, and specifically Phillips 66, a safety leader across U.S. industries. Through our occupational health and industrial hygiene program, we evaluate our workplaces for health hazards to ensure that we protect everyone at our facilities. Employees and contractors report both actual incidents and near misses that have or could have resulted in injury, property damage or environmental impact. We learn from these situations, identifying and removing the root causes to reduce the risk of recurrence.Asset IntegrityEnsuring the integrity of our assets is a crucial HSEMS component. To minimize asset integrity risks associated with operations and equipment failure, business units develop programs and procedures to ensure proper asset design, fabrication, installation, operation and maintenance. Asset integrity programs include quality assurance/quality control, defined inspection, and maintenance intervals for process equipment and meeting required company standards. These high-tech integrity programs and processes are designed to prevent unintentional product release and protect everyone at our facilities and surrounding communities. Many of our company’s process safety and environmental standards exceed industry requirements, promoting our goal of an incident-free workplace.ELECTRONIC WORK PERMITTINGIn 2020, Phillips 66 completed the implementation of a new Electronic Work Permitting (EWP) process across all refineries and a Midstream asset. Work permitting is one of the most integral components of maintaining safety and operational excellence. Our Refining organization alone issues over 750,000 permits annually, and they must be right every time. EWP is a standardized digital system with universal permit requirements, terminology and approval processes across the company. The fully electronic system allows refineries to more efficiently and safely complete routine and major maintenance projects, such as turnarounds, while keeping human safety as the top priority.It enables scope identification, proper communication and hazard assessment to ensure safe project execution. The system brings consistency, reduces reliance on personal knowledge, improves hazard recognition and increases the overall safety of the permitted work. It includes a leading-edge Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment tool with artificial intelligence technologies to improve safety planning.PIPELINE INTEGRITYLiquids pipelines move crude oil to our refineries and move products such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel to market. Our approach to pipeline safety is rooted in preventing product releases, maintenance and emergency preparedness. Elements of these programs include exacting design and construction standards, comprehensive pipeline maintenance, 24/7 remote line monitoring, leak detection, community education programs, and strong relationships with emergency response teams across our asset footprint.We take environmental considerations into account during the planning for all pipeline projects and work to identify community needs and wants.We seek existing pipeline corridors where feasible  to minimize the impact on the environment, local communities, wildlife and cultural resources. We use advanced construction techniques to reduce or avoid impact on natural habitats and waterways. Starting at the planning stage, we work to ensure a project complies with all applicable regulations and laws, including the Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act, National Historic Preservation Act and others. To make this happen, we coordinate and engage with many agencies, such as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and local and state regulators.We also collaborate with environmental conservation and biodiversity groups and Native American tribes to identify any archaeological sites or sites of significance along the route.  We support education and emergency response efforts along a pipeline’s planned route. For example, we’ve invested in STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts and math) education and school district support and donated equipment to emergency response teams. Existing pipeline rights-of-way are visually inspected biweekly, and in some areas, we also inspect via weekly aerial pipeline patrols. The aerial patrols look for potential signs of leaks and any other pipeline integrity threats such as unauthorized digging or exposures. We are recognized for our efforts to go beyond regulatory requirements. We have implemented the best available leak detection technology, real-time transient modeling, on all our operated pipelines. Our Pipeline Control Center staff in Bartlesville, Oklahoma, continuously monitors each pipeline’s operations and pressure. At the first sign of a pressure change, which could indicate a leak, an employee will shut down the pipeline as a precautionary measure until the matter is understood and resolved. Our proactive approach in this area continues to draw positive attention from the government and other partners.We also have an industry-leading maintenance program  that uses smart pipeline inspection gauges, or “pigs.” Using pigs enables us to inspect and assess the interior of our pipelines and identify maintenance needs from the inside before any leak can occur.When we build or repair pipelines, we use various state-of-the-art techniques to ensure asset integrity, such as horizontal directional drilling (HDD) technology, which allows us to bury pipelines deep underneath riverbeds, preventing pipeline exposures. Phillips 66 has spent approximately $130 million to enhance resilience at river crossings.Pipeline Safety by the NumbersWe manage more than 22,000 miles of pipeline systems and directly operate about 12,800 of those miles, making Phillips 66 one of the largest pipeline operators in the United States by barrel-miles.   Over the past five years, pipeline operators have reduced the number of liquids pipeline incidents impacting people or the environment by 38%, even as pipeline miles and barrels delivered have increased. Pipelines remain one of the safest ways to provide the energy we use every day, delivering their products safely 99.999% of the time.  More than 1 billion barrels of product were delivered through our operated pipelines in 2020. That’s about 3 million barrels each day.WEB-EXCLUSIVE Turnarounds Get an Upgrade  HSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (HSEMS) 28TOTAL RECORDABLE RATE (TRR) BY INDUSTRYTRR industry average 
(All industries including private, state and local government)765432100.11Farm Management ServicesFood ManufacturingFertilizer ManufacturingPetroleum RefineriesPhillips 66Pharmaceutical and Medicine ManufacturingCoal MiningSources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2019 data; Phillips 66, 2020 data29PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCEWe work together to keep an open dialogue focused on continuous improvement. WEB-EXCLUSIVE  Phillips 66 Humber Refinery Takes ‘Major Leap’ With High-Tech Training Process safety meeting 
Lake Charles RefineryWESTLAKE, LA10 LIFE SAVING RULESIn conjunction with the HSEMS, our 10 Life Saving Rules (LSR) program is fundamental to Phillips 66’s safety culture. All employees are trained on the LSR, which are clear, concise and apply to all routine and critical activities. They can enhance safety performance and benefit both individuals and communities by preventing injuries. 30Drone pilot
Bayway RefineryLINDEN, NJWEB-EXCLUSIVE Phillips 66 Takes Drone 
Technology to New Heights31OPERATING EXCELLENCEGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPAll Phillips 66 operated 
pipelines are monitored using a leak detection technology with real-time transient modeling.Taft storage facility at Gray Oak PipelineTAFT, TXPipelines: Leading the WayIn 2020, the company commenced full operations on its largest pipeline project ever while also earning several 
of our industry’s top safety honors. In 2020, the Gray Oak Pipeline became fully operational, moving product from West Texas to Texas Gulf Coast destinations. It enables reliable, safe access to product, spurring production in major shale plays and bringing growth to the Texas energy industry and the overall U.S. economy.Gray Oak is a state-of-the-art logistics system anchored by an 845-mile, 900,000 BPD pipeline stretching from the Permian Basin in West Texas to the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas and on to the Gulf Coast. Phillips 66 is the pipeline’s builder and operator. Phillips 66 Partners, the master limited partnership formed by Phillips 66, has a 42.25% effective ownership interest in the pipeline. Gray Oak’s safe commencement was just part of the larger company picture. Our overall record-setting pipeline safety performance in 2020 earned two of the industry’s top honors.Our pipeline entity that owns and operates most lines achieved zero employee recordable injuries, zero pipeline system release events and zero significant vehicle accidents in 2020. This performance helped earn it two industry awards — the American Petroleum Institute’s Distinguished Pipeline Safety Award and the GPA Midstream Perfect Safety Award. API cited the company’s use of a comprehensive risk modeling and HSE management system as key to the record-setting performance. It also said Phillips 66’s cutting-edge research and development has the potential to improve pipeline safety for the entire industry.The company earned a third accolade, the GPA Midstream 2020 Company Safety Award, which recognizes companies for outstanding safety performance in the midstream industry. Gray Oak Pipeline845miles long900,000BPD capacity33OPERATING EXCELLENCEGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPProcess SafetyProcess safety is about preventing the loss of containment of hazardous materials to avoid harming people and the environment. We recognize the need to be proactive and continuously improve. Accordingly, we have identified these focus areas:•	Leveraging process hazard assessment best practices across the company, with added emphasis on safeguards to prevent the highest consequence events•	Reducing the number of events caused by imprecise execution of tasks•	Improving our learning efficiency and effectivenessOur active participation in trade associations and benchmarking groups also helps us identify opportunities for our business while advancing overall industry performance.Process Safety EventsProcess safety events (PSE) are unplanned or uncontrolled releases of hazardous material. We closely monitor and measure our performance in this area. Phillips 66 works to eliminate PSE by applying best practices in design, engineering, operations and maintenance. We also perform hazard analyses and use change-management procedures to mitigate risk.We routinely audit our safety, mechanical integrity, operating and maintenance programs. We investigate serious incidents and near misses to develop corrective actions and capture learnings. We create and improve our procedures to ensure employees and contractors are aware of hazards and how to address and mitigate them.Tier 1 and 2 PSE are defined by the American Petroleum Institute (API) Recommended Practice 754 (RP-754). Tier 1 PSE are the most significant type of unplanned or uncontrolled release of material from primary containment. Tier 2 events have a lesser consequence than Tier 1 events, yet they are still important. All Tier 1 and Tier 2 events are investigated to determine the underlying causes so we can act to prevent recurrences. Our goal is zero PSE.In 2020, our Refining business unit had zero energy isolation-related Tier 1 PSE, and its overall Tier 1 process safety event rate of 0.02 led our industry. Our 2020 companywide PSE Tier 1 and Tier 2 rates were better than the refining industry average rate. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESSWe are prepared to respond to emergencies and work with local, state and federal agencies. Our Emergency Response Management System provides a model for building and maintaining crisis management and emergency response plans.Each facility has a written emergency response plan that includes a process for identifying potential emergencies and planning for mitigation and control. Employees are trained for their responsibilities and assignments under each scenario. Drills are conducted frequently and critiqued so plans can be adjusted as needed. Emergency response plans and documents are thoroughly reviewed each year. At the corporate level, the company maintains a Crisis Management Plan with personnel in place to provide useful and prompt support to supplement actions taken in response to an emergency. The company also utilizes Regional Response Teams to support businesses during significant emergencies.In our annual emergency response drills, we use realistic scenarios to ensure that our Emergency Response Organization and the communities around our facilities are prepared to respond to emergencies. Participation by local and corporate leaders ensures high standards for training and competence for our on-site first responders.Our teams of first responders protect people’s lives and secure the area in an emergency. We invest in training, sending emergency responders to premier institutions such as the Fire Service Institute at the University of Illinois and the Emergency Services Training Institute at Texas A&M University.We extend this specialized training beyond our first responders, covering the costs for firefighters based near our refineries so they can train alongside our teams. This partnership better serves the communities where we operate. In 2020, we also trained more than 200 Midstream employees in emergency response. Combined, they completed more than 4,800 courses that bolster their competency as our first-line emergency responders.In 2020, we found innovative and virtual ways to conduct more than 290 exercises and emergency response drills based on real-life scenarios across our Midstream and Lubricants operations. These included over 200 qualified individual/incident commander notification drills, more than 35 equipment deployment exercises and over 50 “tabletop” exercises to discuss simulated emergencies. We trained more than 350 employees on the Incident Management System, which the company has committed to using for crisis event management. Using Microsoft Teams, we continue to ensure our first responders are prepared to serve as an Incident Response Team and coordinate as a Unified Command with government agencies with authority and jurisdiction over our emergency response efforts. Each of our business units also completes multiple notification accountability drills for emergencies and one tabletop exercise every year. In addition, we hold dozens of exercises for other scenarios, including the following: •	Process safety management•	Risk management fire or vapor cloud scenarios•	At least two annual supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) failure exercises  •	Responses to real-world events•	Government-initiated unannounced exercises•	Earthquake responses•	Hurricane exercises•	Continuity of business or pandemic exercises  If there’s ever an interruption of operations, we have written business continuity plans to resume quickly manufacturing and transporting energy products to markets worldwide. These plans were used effectively during the 2020 hurricane season. CertificationsOSHA’S VOLUNTARY PROTECTION PROGRAMAcross our refining, midstream and lubricants assets, 32 facilities have achieved OSHA Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) STAR recognition.ISO CERTIFICATIONSOur facilities follow quality management systems, 
and many are certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) measures. Our Lubricants business conforms to the ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System. Five of our lubricants facilities have certification to ISO 14001 and the ISO 9001:2015/IATF16949:2016 Quality Management System Standard. Lubricants Research and Development is accredited to the ISO/IEC 17025 standard for testing and calibration laboratories.Bayway Refinery’s polypropylene business in Linden, New Jersey, is certified to ISO 9001:2015 for the design and manufacturing of pellets. We have numerous practices for containing pellets and mitigating loss. Pellets are piped on-site to a storage silo, creating a closed system. From there, product is blended and fed into rail cars for transportation to customers. We inspect rail cars for operable and closed caps and valves. Environmental performance includes collecting scrap and vacuuming sumps to recycle pellets, preventing plastic pellets from getting off the property. We are prepared with booms and vacuum trucks should a spill occur. Our Bayway facility management and employees are committed to Operation Clean Sweep and support the goal of zero pellet loss. We have also implemented a rail car return policy intended to eliminate the possibility of pellets entering the environment due to unsealed or improperly sealed rail cars returning from our customers.Wood River Refinery’s odorless mineral spirits and benzene business lines in Roxana, Illinois, conform to ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System Standards. In the United Kingdom, the Humber Refinery is working to transition to the new ISO 14001 standard and is certified to the 2015 version.In 2020, our Refining business unit’s overall Tier 1 PSE rate of 0.02 
led the industry.COVID-19 RESPONSE PLANSIn 2020, we put our years of drills, exercises and plans into action. We successfully implemented our layers of protection in the workplace, which helped prevent workplace transmission. We kept our employees and contractors safe and healthy while they continued to work at our facilities, which are part of the nation’s critical infrastructure.