PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSafety Performance Our safety culture, comprehensive HSE policies, management systemsand an across-the-board company commitment resulted in an OSHA Total Recordable Rate(TRR) of 0.12 in 2021. That’s 25 times lower than the overall U.S. manufacturing average andlower than the 2021 average in refining and other industries. Our 2021 combined Tier 1 andTier 2 Process Safety was 0.13, our best-ever performance. 2021 was also a record year forMidstream Operations, as we recorded the safest year in Midstream history: • • • •Recorded our best TRR ever at 0.03 Achieved two years without an employee recordableinjury Set a record for fewest spills and fewest PSEs Added the 17th Midstream facility to ourlist of operating facilities that are recognized as VPP STAR sitesTOTAL RECORDABLE RATE (TRR) BY INDUSTRY (Incidents per 200,000 hours worked)Industry Average (All industries including private, local and state government)5 4n n n n n3n n2 1Food manufacturing Retail trade Construction Motion picture, video industries Electric powergeneration, transmission, distribution Petroleum refineries Phillips 660.120 Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2020 data; Phillips 66, 2021 dataWORKING TOWARD ZERO We are determined to be the energy industry&#39;s safest andmost reliable company. We believe that a zeroprocess-safety-incident and zero-injuryworkplace is achievable. We are committed to protecting the health and safety of everyone atour worksites and in the communities where we operate. This priority is embodied in ourinvestment in asset maintenance and integrity and our HSE policies, programs andprocedures. We proactively perform focused audits on major work activities such as energyisolation, startup/shutdown activities, turnaround events, procedures and humanperformance tools. Our business units complete an annual report on risks, including a list ofcorrective actions to address risks identified and closed during the year. In addition, businessunit managers verify compliance with company risk management requirements. The reportsare reviewed and signed off by each subsequent level of management. Ultimately, a completereport containing the status of risk items throughout the company is developed, reviewedwith the chairman and CEO, and summarized for the Public Policy and SustainabilityCommittee. Safety and environmental performance are part of our compensation structure forexecutives and employees. We measure ourselves against the best performers in our industryand target top-quartile performance in safety, environmental stewardship and effectivemanagement of unplanned downtime.ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY21OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT10 LIFE SAVING RULES In conjunction with the HSEMS, our 10 Life Saving Rules program isfundamental to Phillips 66&#39;s safety culture. All employees are trained on the rules, whichare clear, concise and apply to all routine and critical activities. They enhance safetyperformance and benefit both individuals and communities by preventing injuries.CONTRACTOR SAFETY We involve our contract companies in planning work to be performedto ensure safe practices. Regular communication at all levels is foundational to achieving ourmutual goals. Many of our sites have an established Contractor Safety Alliance. These teamsinclude safety professionals, front-line supervisors and leadership from Phillips 66 and eachof our contract companies and business trades. They meet regularly to discuss safety issues,performance and lessons learned. Subcommittee members mentor and onboard newcontractors and train them on our 10 Life Saving Rules and other safe work procedures. Wehave contractor-to-contractor audits to support smaller contract companies. The teamsinclude Phillips 66 employees and several contract company leaders. They reach out toworkers and address any barriers to safe work.Hands-on Learning Leads the Way Safety is our first core value. We seek out impactful waysto keep safety at the forefront. In 2021, the Sweeny Refinery created a hands-on safetytraining experience for more than 850 employees and contractors. The Safety Days programfocuses on improving understanding of the Phillips 66 10 Life Saving Rules andSweeny&#39;s safe work practices. It is facilitated by safety teams and operations andmaintenance personnel who bring their front-line perspective to the training. Over five weeks,groups of about 50 cross-functional employees rotate through eight hands-on stations,including energy isolation, fall protection, confined space entry, hazard recognition and livefire extinguisher training. Each station meets requirements for annual refresher training, usesprior incidents as examples, addresses frequently asked questions and allows employees topractice what they&#39;ve learned. Training stations feature a multilevel scaffold, a lock-outtag-out and work permitting room, access to mobile equipment, and retired processequipment for hands-on practice. Employee feedback was overwhelmingly positive, and thiscritical training has been key to the Sweeny Refinery achieving excellence in safetyperformance.22PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSHIELD YOUR FUTURE Shield Your Future is a training program for all new employees andcontractors. It includes case studies based on real incidents at Phillips 66 and exercises toenhance understanding of safety protocols. These lessons are the foundation and the&quot;why we do what we do&quot; for many of our 10 Life Saving Rules. New employees getmaterials to review before their first day, and the information is covered as part of orientation.The training is also used as a refresh for existing employees. There are three components ofShield Your Future: 1. Be Aware of Your Actions 2. Stop Work When Unsure 3. RecognizeHazardsSTOP-WORK AUTHORITY Two principles that guide all employees and contractors workingwithin our facilities are taking the time to work safely and having the right to speak up andstop work if a safety concern is identified. Everyone working at or visiting our sites isempowered — and required — to stop any work they believe poses a risk to themselves, thepeople around them or the environment. We train our workforce to &quot;stop whenunsure.&quot; No employee or contractor will ever experience negative repercussions forusing their stop-work authority in good faith, even if it turns out that there wasn’t a hazard; infact, employees and contractors who speak up when they spot a potential problem arerewarded through the company’s Good Catch program. It’s another way we hold ourselvesaccountable for everyone’s safety every day. SAFETY MEETINGS, SUMMITS AND TRAININGEach of our sites conducts a monthly safety committee meeting. Employees, managers andunion representatives review goals and safety practices. They also audit results and worktogether to keep an open dialogue focused on continuous improvement. In addition toproviding continuing education opportunities, these meetings enable knowledgesharing fromexperts such as industrial hygienists, safety specialists and process safety representatives.We have more frequent meetings within our field staff groups and perform job safetyanalyses for each field job. We periodically host large-scale company training summits. This isan opportunity to gather people from every health and safety committee in the company toshare best practices, goals and performance milestones. In addition, attendees gain newtechniques, skills and knowledge they can implement at their home facility. The summits alsoencourage union leaders and Phillips 66 management to maintain an open dialogue and speakwith a unified voice about safety. We also hold periodic contractor safety summits with all ourmajor contracting companies to set expectations and goals, share best practices, and keeplines of communication open. Each Midstream Region holds a regional contractor summit withits primary and secondary contractors. In 2021, in compliance with COVID-19 restrictions, weheld a virtual summit with select primary contractors and contractor mentors.AUDITS AND INSPECTIONS Our facilities are subject to rigorous internal, industry andexternal audits and inspections, and our operations are managed to ensure compliance andasset integrity. There are hundreds of audits each year across our operations. Externalauditing agencies include OSHA and the U.K. Health and Safety Executive, the EPA and U.K.Environmental Agency, U.S. Coast Guard, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials SafetyAdministration and the Chemical Safety Board. HSE audits are on a predetermined cycle thatcovers all operations. Additionally, refinery operating excellence audits, insurance riskassessments, trade association assessments and third-party safety audits happen each year.Audits are documented and include a process for communicating results to management andprovisions for periodic review and corrective actions. HSE performance is verified throughrobust assurance processes that involve corporate staff and business unit employees. Eachbusiness unit establishes and maintains auditing processes to assess the adequacy andeffectiveness of HSE controls and compliance with legal requirements and standards ofoperation. Joint ventures, partnerships and contractors are all included in the auditingprocess. We are also involved in numerous industry improvement and standard-settingcommittees of American Petroleum Institute (API), American Fuel &amp; PetrochemicalManufacturers (AFPM) and the Association of Oil Pipe Lines. Our facilities follow industry-leading quality management systems, and many are certified to international standards.These efforts have made our sector, and specifically Phillips 66, a safety leader among U.S.industries. Through our occupational health and industrial hygiene program, we evaluate ourworkplaces for health hazards to ensure that we protect everyone at our facilities. Employeesand contractors report both actual incidents and near misses that have or could have resultedin injury, property damage or environmental impact. We learn from these situations,identifying and removing the root causes to reduce the risk of recurrence.ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY23OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTProcess Safety Process safety is about ensuring containment of hazardous materials to avoidharming people and the environment. We recognize the need to be proactive andcontinuously improve. Accordingly, we have identified these focus areas: • • •Leveraging process hazard assessment best practices across the company, with addedemphasis on safeguards to prevent the highest consequence events Reducing the number ofevents caused by imprecise execution of tasks Improving our learning efficiency andeffectivenessOur active participation in trade associations and benchmarking groups also helps us identifyopportunities for our business while advancing overall industry performance. PROCESSSAFETY EVENTS PSEs are unplanned or uncontrolled releases of hazardous material. Safetymeeting at Ponca City Refinery PONCA CITY, OK We closely monitor and measure ourperformance in this area. Phillips 66 works to eliminate PSEs by applying best practices indesign, engineering, operations and maintenance. We also perform hazard analyses and usechange-management procedures to mitigate risk. We routinely audit our safety, mechanicalintegrity, operating and maintenance programs. We investigate serious incidents and nearmisses to develop corrective actions and capture learnings. We create and improve ourprocedures to ensure employees and contractors are aware of hazards and how to addressand mitigate them. Tier 1 and Tier 2 PSEs are defined by the API Recommended Practice 754.Tier 1 PSEs are the most significant type of unplanned or uncontrolled release of materialfrom primary containment. Tier 2 events have lesser consequences than Tier 1 events, yetthey are still important. All Tier 1 and Tier 2 events are investigated to determine theunderlying causes so we can act to prevent recurrences. Our goal is zero PSEs. In 2021, ourRefining business unit had zero energy isolation-related Tier 1 PSEs, and its overall Tier 1process safety event rate of 0.05 led our industry. Our 2021 companywide PSE Tier 1 and Tier2 rates were better than the refining industry average rate.Optimization To thrive in the energy transition, we must focus on efficiencies within ourprocesses and decision making, leverage digital capabilities, and advanced automation.AdvantEdge66 is an enterprisewide digital transformation program focused on utilizing data,artificial intelligence, and machine learning to deliver agility, efficiency and value. Optimizingour current operations is essential to operating a sustainable business. Our Value ChainOptimization Engine effort released nine new tools in 2021. These tools include cloud-basedapplications that help us improve performance projections, scenario planning and supplycomparisons. 24PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPipeline Control Center BARTLESVILLE, OKMIDSTREAM DIGITAL INNOVATION Our Midstream Digital Innovation project uses technologyto increase operational efficiencies, enhance human performance and safety, and delivervalue across dozens of workstreams. As an example, our Deep Learning optimization solutionboosts fractionation capacity to maximize throughput. We’ve automated Control Center-operated pipeline startups, shutdowns and steady-state operation to minimize manual inputs,resulting in improved flow rates and higher throughput. This also preserves pipeline integrityby reducing pressure-cycle fatigue. WIRELESS REFINERIES We are adding wirelessconnectivity to enable smart operations monitoring and utilizing sensors to analyze and alertus to irregularities. This reduces risk, enhances safety and optimizes energy utilization at ourrefineries. DIGITAL OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE We’re enhancing our current systemsand operations through our Digital Operations &amp; Maintenance (DOM) program. DOMevaluates new technologies that give us greater visibility into our systems, allow us to findopportunities to optimize our processes and increase efficiency.Digitizing Operating Procedures and Permits in Refining In 2021, we began a multiyearinitiative that will ultimately impact 18,000 refining operating procedures. As part of our DOMproject, the first step, completed in 2021, was converting procedures detailed on paper todigital files stored in a cloudbased tool. This allows operators to access and executeprocedures from the field using a mobile device. During the second phase, which began in2021 and will continue through 2023, we are incorporating human factors principles toimprove procedures and make them clearer and easier to follow. Cross-functional teamsreview each procedure to ensure all critical content is included. This work is critical toreducing the risk of procedure-related errors. Data on Tier 1 PSEs reveals that unclear, vague,irrelevant or unfollowed procedures contribute to about 40% of events. Our proceduremanagement initiative is intended to improve our procedures and reduce the risk of errors.Midstream is also piloting this approach. Our Electronic Work Permitting process is live acrossall sites. The fully electronic system allows refineries to complete routine and majormaintenance projects more safely and efficiently, brings consistency, reduces reliance onpersonal knowledge, improves hazard recognition and increases the overall safety of thepermitted work. It includes a leading-edge Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment toolwith artificial intelligence technologies to improve safety planning. Another benefit ofdigitizing these records is eliminating paper use and the associated waste.APPLICATIONS FOR REFINING COMPETITIVENESS In 2022, we rolled out a new digitalworkflow tool called Applications for Refining Competitiveness (ARC). Users access ARCthrough a mobile interface that alerts them when action is needed. The system has increasedefficiency, managing more than 14,000 process steps simultaneously. It also improvesaccuracy by offering users instructions on how to complete tasks.ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY25OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTDRONE TECHNOLOGY Drones allow us to monitor assets from a safe distance and at variouselevations while also allowing pilots to zoom in and take close-up images to identifyanomalies. By the end of 2022, we plan to have over 90 trained and qualified drone pilotsacross our Refining and Midstream organizations. Pilots must meet Federal AviationAdministration and Phillips 66 proficiency requirements by completing the FAA&#39;s Part107 certification and advanced operations training through a third-party drone pilot trainingcompany. Some of the applications across our assets are: •• • •Inspections, including: Inspection drone at Bayway Refinery – Elevated structures LINDEN, NJ– Tank seals – Flare stacks – Heater stacks – Foam chambers – Environmental conditions –Overhead electrical lines Volumetric measurements such as coke pile volume and tank dikevolume Site mapping Support for emergency responseASSET PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Asset Performance Management (APM) provides dataand analytics to identify and eliminate reliability issues. In 2021, we completed the APMrollout to all our refineries. Now, with a common platform, data can be accessed in minutes,not hours, enabling dashboards and metrics that drive actions to prevent failures. As a result,we can better prevent unplanned downtime, monitor equipment to optimize utilization andeliminate defects, and track successes.Improving Operations in Refining Our Advanced Integrated Mechanical Integrity (AIMI) projectis improving early detection of corrosion threats at our refineries. In 2021, we completed pilotprograms at our Borger and Ferndale refineries, uncovering many opportunities to improveour inspection program and several near-miss inspection findings that were subsequentlyrepaired. This proactive approach reduces lost-profit opportunities and improves safety,environmental and turnaround performance. AIMI takes a risk-based approach tosystematically standardize, validate and digitize our design and process information. Itimproves inspection planning because we are using leading-edge software and analyticaltools, communicating across operating groups, improving access to information, linkingcorrosion threats to specific equipment, and facilitating cross-site sharing of findings. 26PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS We are prepared to respond to emergencies and work withlocal, state and federal agencies. Our Emergency Response Management System provides amodel for building and maintaining crisis management and emergency response plans. At thecorporate level, the company maintains a Crisis Management Plan with personnel who canprovide practical and prompt support to supplement actions taken in response to anemergency. The company also utilizes Regional Response teams to support businessesduring significant emergencies. Incident Management Assistance team drill FERNDALE, WAEach facility has a written emergency response plan that includes a process for identifyingpotential emergencies and planning for mitigation and control. We focus on individualized,site-specific training rather than larger-scale general training exercises. Employees aretrained for their responsibilities and assignments under each scenario. Drills are conductedfrequently and critiqued so plans can be adjusted as needed. Emergency response plans anddocuments are thoroughly reviewed each year. In our annual emergency response drills, weuse realistic scenarios to ensure that our Emergency Response Organization and thecommunities around our facilities are prepared to respond to emergencies. Participation bylocal and corporate leaders ensures high standards for training and competence for our on-site first responders. Our teams of first responders protect lives and secure the area in anemergency. We invest in training and sending emergency responders to premier institutionssuch as the Fire Service Institute at the University of Illinois and the Emergency ServicesTraining Institute at Texas A&amp;M University. We extend this specialized training beyondour first responders, covering the costs for firefighters based near our refineries so they cantrain alongside our teams. In addition, when we hold drills and training exercises in areas nearNative American communities, we also invite tribal representatives to participate. We believethat sharing these resources is a way to make our communities safer and keep importantlines of communication open. We ensure our first responders are prepared to serve on ourIncident Response teams and coordinate with government agencies that have authority andjurisdiction over our emergency response efforts. Each of our business units also completesmultiple notification accountability drills for emergencies and one tabletop exercise everyyear. In addition, we hold dozens of exercises for other scenarios, including the following: • •• • • • • •Process safety management Risk management fire or vapor cloud scenarios Supervisorycontrol and data acquisition failure exercises at least twice a year Responses to real-worldevents Government-initiated unannounced exercises Earthquake responses Hurricaneexercises Continuity of business or pandemic exercisesIf there&#39;s ever an interruption of operations, the business continuity plans are put intoaction to quickly resume manufacturing and transporting energy products to marketsworldwide. ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY27OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTAsset Integrity Ensuring the integrity of our assets is a crucial HSEMS component. Businessunits develop programs and procedures to ensure proper asset design, fabrication,installation, operation and maintenance to minimize asset integrity risks associated withoperations and equipment failure. Asset integrity programs include quality assurance andquality control, defined inspection and maintenance intervals for process equipment, andmeeting company standards. These high-tech integrity programs and processes are designedto prevent unintentional product releases and protect everyone at our facilities andsurrounding communities. Many of our company&#39;s process safety and environmentalstandards exceed industry requirements, promoting our goal of an incident-free workplace.PIPELINE INTEGRITY Liquids pipelines move crude oil and natural gas liquids to our operatingassets and take the natural gas liquids, gasoline, diesel and jet fuel we produce to market.Our approach to pipeline safety is rooted in preventing product releases and staying ahead ofmaintenance requirements and emergency preparedness. Elements of these programsinclude exacting design and construction standards, comprehensive pipeline maintenance,24/7 remote-line monitoring, leak detection, community education programs and strongrelationships with emergency response teams across our asset footprint.We seek existing pipeline corridors where feasible and use advanced construction techniquesto minimize the impact on the environment, local communities, wildlife and natural resources.When we build or repair pipelines, we use various state-of-the-art techniques to ensure assetintegrity, such as horizontal directional drilling technology, which allows us to bury pipelinesdeep underneath riverbeds, preventing pipeline exposures. Since 2012, Phillips 66 has spentapproximately $130 million to enhance resilience at river crossings.~$130 millionStarting at the planning stage, we work to ensure a project complies with all applicableregulations and laws, including the Clean Water Act, Endangered invested to enhanceresilience at river crossings Species Act, National Historic Preservation Act and since 2012others. We coordinate and engage with many agencies, such as the U.S. Army Corps ofEngineers, U.S. Fish and We support response efforts along a pipeline’s Wildlife Service, andlocal and state regulators. planned route, and we regularly donate equipment to We takeenvironmental considerations into account emergency response teams. during the planningfor all pipeline projects and work to Clemens to Gregory (C2G) Pipeline identify communityneeds and wants. BRAZORIA, TX28PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTExisting pipeline rights-of-way are visually inspected biweekly, and in some areas, we alsoinspect via regular aerial pipeline patrols to look for potential signs of leaks and any otherpipeline integrity threats such as unauthorized digging or exposures. We are recognized forour efforts to go beyond regulatory requirements. We have implemented state-of-the-art leakdetection technology, real-time transient modeling, on all our operated pipelines. Our PipelineControl Center staff in Bartlesville, Oklahoma, continuously monitors each pipeline&#39;soperations and pressure. At the first sign of a pressure change that could indicate a leak, anemployee will shut down the pipeline as a precautionary measure until the matter isunderstood and resolved. Our proactive “think leak” approach, in which we work to prove thatthere is not a leak versus the more traditional approach of proving that there is a leak, hasbeen noted by a representative of the Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and HazardousMaterials Safety Administration as industry-leading. We developed tools to monitor pipelinepressure cycles in real time. These tools give us insight into the pipelines with a high risk ofpressure-cycle fatigue.In pressure-cycle reduction projects, we&#39;ve achieved pressure-cycle reductions as highas 80%. This translates into a lower risk for leaks caused by crack failures. It also results infewer crack remediation excavations and can lengthen the intervals between crackinspections. We also have an industry-leading maintenance program that uses smart pipelineinspection gauges, or “pigs,” which travel through the pipelines and send images, enabling usto inspect and assess the interior of our pipelines and proactively identify maintenance needsfrom the inside. Hydrocarbon Spills We are improving the integrity testing of pipelines andusing data analytics to reduce seam cracks. We apply our technical resources and know-howthrough joint studies with the Pipeline Research Council International, Joint IndustryPartnership, and various committees within API and the Association for Materials Protectionand Performance. In 2021, 95% of the Midstream environmental spill release volume directlyresulted from damages sustained during Hurricane Ida.AT A GLANCEPipeline Safety Pipelines are one of the safest ways to transport the energy we use everyday, delivering products safely 99.999% of the time. We manage more than 22,000 miles ofpipeline systems and directly operate about 12,800 of those miles, making Phillips 66 one ofthe largest pipeline operators in the United States by barrel-miles.1+ billion3.3 millionbarrels of product delivered through operated pipelines in 2021BPD of product deliveredENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY29OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTLiving Our Values Through a Pipeline Replacement Project Our pipelines deliver crude oil,refined petroleum products and natural gas liquids. As segments of the pipelines age, wereplace or reroute them to ensure the safe delivery of our products. Approximately 30% of theMidstream sustaining capital budget is allocated for pipe replacements. ••Our 90-mile Cherokee East Pipeline runs from our refinery in Ponca City, Oklahoma, to thenortheastern part of the state, and, in 2021, we replaced and rerouted 27 miles of the cleanproduct pipeline. Construction will be complete in 2023 The 250-mile-long Blue Linetransports propane and butane from Paola, Kansas, to customers in Missouri and Illinois. Overthe last six years, we’ve replaced more than 100 miles; an additional 34 will be replaced in2022 and another 14 miles in 2023The projects are notable for their importance and scope and for the safety example set byabout 300 employees and contractors who worked on-site. Their teamwork, communicationand commitment to safety led to more than 800,000 operational work-hours with zerorecordable employee injuries and zero pipeline system release events. Safety goes beyondour workforce; the safety of the environment and the surrounding community is also apriority.Gray Oak Pipeline at Taft storage facility TAFT, TXCOMMUNITY SUSTAINABILITY We also made investments in several Missouri communitiessurrounding the Blue Line replacement project, including: • • • • •30A utility terrain vehicle for the Pacific Fire Protection District A safety fence around acommuter parking lot A Utility Task Vehicle with fire suppression and Emergency MedicalServices skid insert for the Eureka Fire Protection District Equipment for the Fenton FireDepartment Regional Training Facility A park shelter and trail project for Jefferson CountyParks and RecreationPHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEnvironmental Stewardship WATER CONSERVATION Water is an essential resource in ourmanufacturing facilities and processes. All our refining assets have on-site water treatmentsystems, many of which use available brackish, saltwater or non-freshwater resources, aswell as solutions that involve industrial reuse processes. In North America and the UnitedKingdom, we operate 12 biological treatment plants and 15 pre-treatment facilities. Phillips 66researches and develops best practices for water use to ensure that we will have sufficient,sustainable water resources well into the future, and we are responsibly managing this criticalnatural resource. We also evaluate new technologies and products to decrease our waterfootprint by recycling more water, and we collaborate with research institutions to solve waterchallenges. To meet and exceed the strict requirements of the National Pollutant DischargeElimination System, or industrial pre-treatment permits, we have improved our watermanagement procedures, setting higher environmental performance standards, minimizingplant upsets, and reducing chemical use and waste generation. We have developed leadingKey Performance Indicators as part of our water use efficiency program for our facilities,including condensate returned to steam produced and condensate recovered versusconsumed in the process. Our refineries produce 15 million pounds of steam per hour. Eachpound of steam is more than a pound of water, which is why we’re working to optimize ouruse of steam and minimize losses. As part of our DOM program, we’re rolling out anoptimization tool to all our refineries. The tool allows operators and engineers to see theentire steam system and provides prescriptive actions to use the steam and minimize lossfrom venting. This is expected to help us recover 250 million pounds of steam a year. Closed-circuit Reverse Osmosis We repurposed a conventional reverse osmosis unit to use closed-circuit reverse osmosis (CCRO) to treat about 900 gallons per minute (GPM) of concentratedbrine for use in boilers. CCRO works like a cooling tower that cycles water until it reaches aset salt content, at which point it blows down the brine while continuing to generate cleanwater. We see results in significantly improved cooling tower cycles, and the annual raw waterdemand for Borger&#39;s boilers is down by 473 million gallons.473 million gallons of water saved through CCRO at the Borger RefineryUsing Technology to Save Water Pilot program reduced water usage and saved energy costs.Our Billings and Bayway refineries implemented steam trap monitoring as part of the DOMprogram. Using hand-held acoustic sensors coupled with a cloud-based analytics program,steam traps were periodically tested. Initial surveys identified areas for prioritizedmaintenance. Repairing the identified traps netted $1.3 million per year savings in energycosts at the two facilities. The work also helped improve third-party energy intensityperformance statistics and reduce GHG emissions.$1.3 million saved in 2021 energy costs by reducing steam losses at Billings and BaywayrefineriesThree additional refineries will start the program in 2022 and remaining refineries arescheduled to be included in 2023. ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY