OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTWastewater We regularly engage with wastewater trade associations like the WaterEnvironment Federation to work with our peers to develop and share best practices. Ourwastewater experts volunteer their time to peer-review articles published in EnvironmentalEngineering Science, a journal covering climate change, energy and environment;contaminant fate and transport; environmental sensors; and green technologies. We are alsoworking on a project to treat and recycle 3,200 GPM of wastewater to be used in boilers atour Borger Refinery. This project will help the refinery meet new selenium dischargerequirements. Remediated Water Recycling Estimates Our Remediation Management team isresponsible for treating water that may have been contaminated. In 2021, the team treatedand recycled over 48 million barrels of water for reuse at our facilities, reducing the amount offreshwater needed to operate.48 million barrels of water recycled for reuse at our facilitiesTypical reuses can include temperature control of cooling towers, emergency responseapplication and outfalls. Bioreactor Bugs Processing crude oil requires water, which must becleaned to remove nitrates before discharge. If nitrates aren’t removed, they can encourageexcess algae growth in rivers and streams. The ERI teams in Bartlesville, Oklahoma, and atHumber Refinery discovered that, in low-oxygen conditions, certain bugs break down nitratesinto nitrogen gas, which is safely dissipated into the atmosphere. This method has helped ourHumber Refinery, in the U.K., decrease its total nitrogen output by more than half, allowingthe refinery to meet environmental requirements and realize additional utility cost savings onoxygen and fresh caustic usage.32PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWater application lab at Ponca City Refinery PONCA CITY, OKAT A GLANCEReducing Freshwater Use We are committed to reducing freshwater withdrawals at ourfacilities. Our efforts extend to our Houston Headquarters, where we collect and reuserainwater. Several of our refineries have developed processes to meet the facility&#39;sunique needs. Recycling water is one way we do that. Understanding the local water demandand the potential for water scarcity in the future are key considerations, as we prioritizeprojects to improve efficiency and decrease our environmental footprint.BORGER REFINERYLAKE CHARLES REFINERYOur Borger Refinery has several ways to conserve water, including recovering 200 GPM ofcondensate for use in boilers. This saves 105 million gallons of freshwater each year.At our Lake Charles Refinery, we recycled 378 million gallons in 2021. That’s a 17% reductionin our raw water demand.PONCA CITY REFINERY Our Ponca City Refinery reduces its freshwater usage by reclaimingwater and harvesting stormwater. This practice has reduced freshwater needs by 2,500 GPM,or 1.3 billion gallons per year. That&#39;s a 32% reduction in our freshwater usage.Ponca City Refinery PONCA CITY, OKENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY33OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTWASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING Across all our operations in 2021, we recycled184,000 metric tons of materials, bringing us to more than 1 million metric tons recycledcompanywide since 2014. That total includes more than 220,000 pounds of recycledelectronic waste, refinery process catalyst captured for metals reclamation, oils and solidscaptured for reuse, and recyclable materials such as metal, glass and paper. We also achieveda 20% reduction in power usage at company-operated data centers.20%184,000reduction in power use at company-operated data centersmetric tons of materials recycled in 2021We track every raw material used in the manufacturing process at our lubricants plants. In2021, we recycled 950 tons of scrap material across our portfolio, including cardboard,bottles, cans, pallets and shrink wrap. Tanks at our refineries and terminals require periodiccleanouts, and we must dispose of the residual product in compliance with strictenvironmental laws. Phillips 66 has a systematic hazardous waste program with processesand practices executed by trained personnel. Each of our operating sites has environmentalprofessionals whose expertise is supplemented by corporate staff. In 2021, our tank cleanoutmethods led to the generation of 1.7 million gallons of waste-derived fuel for manufacturingprocesses and conserved more than 170,000 gallons of water. Obsolete electronic equipmentis sustainably processed through a third-party provider. When possible, the equipment isrefurbished and used for other purposes. Other times, it&#39;s broken down into useablecomponent materials. We recycled or refurbished 223,724 pounds of Information Technology(IT) equipment across our U.S. facilities in 2021.Arrows of Impact Our Arrows of Impact program is designed to reduce waste at our HoustonHeadquarters by 20% by the fourth quarter of 2022. Launched on America Recycles Day in2021, the program makes recycling more convenient and educates employees on what andhow to recycle. In 2021, we generated about 200 pounds of waste per person at our HoustonHeadquarters, and through our program, we recycled 26 metric tons and composted 0.55metric tons of café waste, coffee grounds and napkins.But we can still do better. That&#39;s why we implemented the following initiatives to achieveour Arrows of Impact goal: •Our recycling efforts: • • •34Conserved 172,848 gallons of water and 36,632 kilowatt-hours of electricity Saved 468mature trees Prevented 7 metric tons of CO2e GHG emissionsPHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT• • •Adding reusable containers in the cafeteria: Each reusable container can be used 1,000 times.Using 500 reusable containers will replace 50 months’ worth of disposable containersIncreasing composting from the café Reducing the use of disposable cups Installing handdryers in our restroomsRetained product detection system DENVER, COPreventing Loss With Artificial Intelligence When trucks enter our terminals to be filled, weneed to know how much product we can put in each truck to prevent overflow. Retainedproduct that was part of a previous delivery, but is still in a truck&#39;s tank, is the leadingcause of spills at our truck racks. We completed a proof-of-concept test and are testing apermanent installation of a retained product detection system utilizing artificial intelligenceand infrared cameras to spot retained product in trucks as they enter our Denver Terminal.Identifying when there’s product already in the tanker before loading is expected to reducethe number of releases and subsequent downtime at the truck rack. The system is targetedfor implementation at additional sites in 2022. Lake Charles Manufacturing ComplexWESTLAKE, LAAIR EMISSIONS Over the past 10 years, we have focused on significant investments inreducing air emissions. Since 2012, volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions from ourRefining business unit have decreased by 34.5%.34.5% decrease in VOC emissions since 2012 The air research and development program atthe Phillips 66 Research Center collaborates with government agencies, trade organizationsand academic institutions to provide data that leads to effective rule-making to improve airquality in the communities where we operate. We also find efficient ways to use resources.For example, in July 2021, we found a way to allow a third party to use excess fuel gas fromour Bayway Refinery during turnaround and nonturnaround operations. Instead of burning inprocess heaters and boilers or flaring the excess, off-gas can now be piped directly to thecogeneration unit. This agreement has numerous benefits, including improved fuel balance,increased fluid catalytic cracking and improved energy performance at the site. Flare GasRecovery At our Lake Charles Manufacturing Complex in Louisiana, the West Flare RecoveryGas Compressor system for Excel Paralubes was commissioned in 2021. Gas that would havenormally been flared was instead recovered and recycled back into the refinery, resulting inless flaring and fewer emissions. Flare Gas Recovery systems minimize flaring during routineoperations yet allow flares when needed for emergency safety mitigation purposes.ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY35OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTBIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION Our environmental stewardship goes beyond regulatoryrequirements and focuses on connecting conservation efforts to our business and managingnatural capital in and around the communities where we work and market our products.Natural capital encompasses the supply of the world&#39;s natural resources from whicheconomic value and benefits can be derived, such as forests, oceans and freshwater, and thebiodiversity that supports these ecosystems. We believe the careful management of naturalcapital is a core component of a resilient, long-term strategy. We collaborate with local andnational environmental and conservation organizations to promote biodiversity andenvironmental stewardship and support their efforts by donating money and resources. Ouremployees and interns volunteer their time and make monetary contributions, many of whichare matched by the company. Phillips 66 has long-standing partnerships with many nationalconservation organizations, including the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, DucksUnlimited, Trees For Houston and the Wildlife Habitat Council. We view the management ofnatural capital and biodiversity risks as essential. We address them throughout the planningand development of major capital projects by conducting environmental impact analyses,collecting critical environmental data, and implementing mitigation and monitoring programsto reduce impacts and ensure results.PROTECTING WILDLIFE IN OUR COMMUNITIES We also make an annual contribution to a birdor wildlife rescue and rehabilitation organization in every region. In 2021, we donated tonumerous groups, including: • • • • • •Tri-State Bird Rescue and Research The Wildlife Center of Texas International Bird RescueSutton Avian Treehouse Wildlife Center Wild West Wildlife Rehabilitation CenterWilson’s Plover GRAND ISLE, LACreating Green Space The Edwardsville Children’s Museum Micro Forest project near ourWood River Refinery in Roxana, Illinois, is aiding the environment in a big way. When microforests — small, wooded areas in urban settings — are planted, they can become a diverseecosystem in just 20 years. This benefits biodiversity and air quality and slows stormwaterrunoff, helping prevent flooding and water pollution. Phillips 66 was proud to sponsor andprovide volunteers to plant more than 100 trees in spring 2021. The museum hopes to have afull 2-acre forest preserve by 2033. The micro forest project also connects to a STEM forestdisplay sponsored by the refinery inside the museum. Edwardsville Children’s Museum MicroForest EDWARDSVILLE, IL3636PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTA Multifaceted Approach to Monarch Conservation In 2022, we applied for a NationwideMonarch Butterfly Candidate Conservation Agreement for Energy and Transportation Lands.This effort would enroll 11,194 miles of our rights-of-way with an average width of 50 feet —approximately 67,842 acres — in a project to protect these threatened insects. Our rights-ofway span 243 counties in 17 states: Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri,Montana, North Dakota, Nebraska, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oklahoma, Texas,Utah, Washington and Wyoming. We plan to address key threats to monarch butterflies withactions that promote monarch habitat and benefit all pollinators. These include maintenanceand management practices such as conservation mowing, idle lands, woody vegetationremoval, targeted herbicide application, and limiting broadcast herbicides to high-activityareas like terminals and valve sites. Our Houston Headquarters is a certified MonarchWaystation location. In collaboration with our landscape management company, we’rerenovating our landscape to provide a butterfly habitat for monarchs and other species.Phase one of the project earned us status as an official Monarch Waystation with more than600 milkweed plants and numerous host and nectar plants that sustain the entire life cycle ofthe monarch butterfly. Phase two will include even more plantings.Building a Safe Place for Migrating Waterfowl Phillips 66 is a sponsor of a first-of-its-kindwaterfowl refuge being built at ZooMontana near our Billings Refinery. The refuge will be anatural stopping spot for waterfowl during migration. The exhibit will have observation decks,an underwater area to watch native fish and boardwalks so that zoo visitors can learn aboutwildlife and wetland ecology. Restoring the Louisiana Coastline We teamed up with theLouisiana Coastal Conservation Association (CCA) and more than 100 local school childrenand other volunteers to restore marshland in Lake Charles’ Prien Lake Park. Volunteerscreated 10 floating islands measuring 8 feet by 20 feet; each island was then planted withabout 150 native plants. Afterward, CCA volunteers floated the completed islands to a spot inPrien Lake by boat and then anchored them down. Projects like this help create habitats fornative species and restore marshland that has been destroyed by erosion and hurricanes.Phillips 66 volunteers also worked with the Coalition to Restore Coastal Louisiana to helpbuild the Plaquemines Oyster Reef. We’re honored that our employees are featured in theorganization’s Champion Our Coast 2022 Corporate Coastal Stewardship Guide.Leaving the Lights Off for Birds Every spring, approximately 3 billion birds migrate through theUnited States, and it is estimated that one-third of those pass through Texas on their travels.Bright lights from homes and businesses can disorient the birds at night. During peakmigration, we only used essential lights at our headquarters overnight to support the LightsOut Texas initiative to help the birds fly safely to their summer nesting spots.For more details on environmental data, see the Performance Data section in this report.Plaquemines Oyster Reef volunteer event at Prien Lake Park LAKE CHARLES, LAENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY37OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTGovernanceLake Charles Manufacturing Complex WESTLAKE, LA38PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe are committed to doing the right thing, always.GOVERNANCE39OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTGood governance and ethics are an integral part of every level of our organization. Rigorousand consistent corporate governance practices contribute positively to our corporate cultureand shareholder value.Board and Managerial Oversight and Governance Our board of directors and our ExecutiveLeadership Team are committed to ethical business practices. The board regularly reviewsevolving corporate governance best practices, regulatory requirements and feedback fromshareholders, making changes it believes are in the best interest of Phillips 66 and itsshareholders. Directors also collaborate with senior leaders and stay connected to ourcorporate culture through regular visits to our facilities, where they study the company&#39;sday-to-day operations and talk to employees. Each of our board committees has specificresponsibilities. The Public Policy and Sustainability Committee manages the company’ssustainability program and associated initiatives and: • • • •Reviews compliance with HSE policies and impacts of environmental and social trends anduncertainties Reviews exposure to and management of environmental, social and politicaltrends and risks, including climate risk Reviews and makes recommendations on thecompany&#39;s policies, programs and practices regarding HSE protection, governmentrelations and political contributions, philanthropy, and sustainability matters Reviews thecompany&#39;s global reputation as a good corporate citizen in the communities where itoperatesThe Audit and Finance Committee monitors our enterprisewide risk management programand our controls, compliance and ethics. It oversees the integrity of our financial reportingand financial statements. The Nomination and Governance Committee oversees boardcomposition and succession planning. It is committed to enhancing diversity and seekingcandidates with diverse backgrounds and perspectives who possess the collaborative spirit,character, skills, experiences and expertise required to oversee the execution of thecompany’s strategy, risk management and operational objectives. The Human Resources andCompensation Committee determines compensation for the Executive Leadership Team. Itoversees our human capital management strategy, including workplace culture, diversity andinclusion, and other talent management programs and initiatives. The Executive Committeecan exercise the powers of authority of the board to direct the business affairs of thecompany between meetings of the full board. The company and board governing documentslay out the specific roles and responsibilities of the board and its committees. The fullcharters for each committee can be found on the Phillips 66 Investors site.Houston Headquarters HOUSTON, TX40PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEthics and Governance Written policies and auditing programs create strong governancethroughout the company and our supply chain. Key policies and documents, including boardgovernance documents and charters, are publicly available on our website. These and manyother formal procedures and controls set the standards that guide our actions and ensure thehighest levels of responsibility, integrity and legal compliance across our businesses. ETHICSAND BUSINESS CONDUCT Safety, honor and commitment are our values. At Phillips 66, wedo not compromise our integrity. We recognize that questions can arise in today&#39;sincreasingly complex global business environment. Therefore, we follow the operatingguidelines in our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Code of Ethics) to ensure we tie ourcompany&#39;s values to our decision-making processes. Our company policies, programsand practices ensure ethical business and good governance. We expect every person whoworks at Phillips 66 — directors, officers and employees at all levels within the company — towork for the greater good and act with integrity, abiding by our Code of Ethics. All employeesparticipate in biannual training on the Code of Ethics and must attest that they will complywith the Code annually. Phillips 66’s principal executive officer and senior financial officersare also expected to adhere to a supplemental Code of Ethics for the Principal ExecutiveOfficer and Senior Financial Officers. We conduct annual benchmarking of our ethics programvia a third party and share those results with our board&#39;s Audit and Finance Committee.The Code of Ethics covers topics including, but not limited to, human rights, conflicts ofinterest, discrimination, harassment, confidentiality, antibribery, anti-boycott, employeegrievances, insider trading, competition and fair dealing. It encapsulates the company&#39;shuman rights position and prohibits human trafficking and forced labor, consistent withinternational norms. We recognize and respect the dignity of all human beings. We believebusiness has a role in promoting respect for human rights worldwide. We embrace the right ofall people to live their lives free from social, political or economic discrimination or abuse. Itoversees the integrity of financial reporting and financial statements. The United NationsUniversal Declaration of Human Rights informs our Position on Human Rights. We don’t usecorporal punishment, and where we provide housing for employees, we ensure livingconditions are safe and sanitary.SHARED VALUE Our company contributes to the local, state and national economies and thecommunities in which we live and operate. Since 2012, Phillips 66 has paid approximately $10billion in income and property taxes to local, state and federal governments, helping fundprograms for public schools and projects like roads, bridges, ports and waterways.~$10 billion income and property taxes paid to local, state and federal governments since2012From 2012 through the end of 2021, we distributed over $29 billion to shareholders throughdividends, share repurchases and share exchanges. We achieved these results through ourcontinued commitment to safe, reliable and environmentally sustainable operations.$29+ billion to shareholders through dividends, share repurchases and share exchanges from2012 through the end of 2021Global Ethics Toll-free Help Line 855-318-5390GOVERNANCE41OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCEBUSINESS PARTNER, SUPPLY CHAIN AND SOCIAL SUPPLIER STANDARDS The productsmanufactured in our refineries and developed along the supply chain significantly contributeto local, state and national economies. In keeping with our core value of honor, we choosebusiness partners objectively and fairly and act with honesty in all business dealings. Wecomply with laws where we do business to ensure our supply chain standards meet minimumwage, child labor, right to associate or bargain collectively, and working-hour requirements.Business partners and suppliers are expected to comply with the contractual obligations andexpectations in our Business Partner Principles of Conduct. These principles require oursuppliers to work with our employees in a manner consistent with our values and our Code ofEthics. Priorities include fair wages, nondiscrimination, no human trafficking, antibribery,cybersecurity, and upholding all health, safety and environmental laws. Our procurementpolicy governs all our supply chain activities. We employ formal processes to consistently vetsuppliers to protect people, ensure adherence to industry-standard frameworks for qualityand monitor financial stability. Maintaining ongoing engagement with our suppliers helpsensure the continued safety, quality and sustainable delivery of goods and services to ouroperations. Understanding and monitoring the work conducted by our suppliers and businesspartners is integral to efficient and robust business operations, sustainability and respect forhuman rights. We audit suppliers’ manufacturing facilities and examine contracts within oursupply chain to ensure adherence to policy. Our suppliers are expected to certify that thematerials incorporated into products sold to Phillips 66 comply with all laws, including thosepertaining to human rights, slavery and human trafficking. We engage with suppliers toenhance our operating performance through innovative products and the execution ofcontinuous improvement opportunities. Supply Chain SustainabilityPhillips 66 seeks to do business with diverse businesses across all our operations, and we arecommitted to providing equal and impartial opportunities. This approach stimulates localeconomic development and enhances our longterm business performance by improvingsupplier responsiveness, competition and sustainability. 42PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTWe actively participate in organizations that support the development of diverse businessesin the United States. This support includes our corporate memberships in the NationalMinority Supplier Development Council, the Women’s Business Enterprise National Counciland active support of API diversity activities. Our goals encourage the expanded utilization ofa diverse, sustainable supply base while delivering quality and competitive goods andservices. We piloted supply chain sustainability training for our employees, highlighting itemsof impact and our initiatives. We anticipate offering training to all employees in theProcurement organization by the end of 2022.ADVANCING SUPPLIER DIVERSITY We advanced our supplier diversity program byestablishing collaborative relationships, developing digital tools, providing data visibility andestablishing internal metrics for diverse supplier benchmarking and utilization in alignmentwith our business needs. In 2021, we developed a dashboard that allows business units toanalyze their current supplier diversity landscape. We increased our Tier 1 and 2 supplierreporting program to engage with and advance our efforts.POLITICAL AND PUBLIC POLICY PROCESS Phillips 66 participates in the U.S. legislative andregulatory policy development and political process to serve the best interests of ourshareholders, our workforce and other stakeholders. Our operations are highly regulated andare affected by actions at many levels of government. Our public policy activities includeeducation and advocacy efforts at the local, state and federal levels. We are also committedto complying with all applicable state and federal rules on lobbying and disclosures. OurPolitical Giving and Activity Policy governs our actions. It discloses political activity by theboard of directors and management and lays out the criteria by which we evaluatecontributions made over the past five years. In addition, the board’s Public Policy andSustainability Committee has oversight of political risks and receives updates from the boardthroughout the year.PHILLIPS 66 EMPLOYEE POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE In accordance with board andcompany policies, Phillips 66 does not make direct corporate contributions to candidates instate and federal elections where prohibited. Employees can, however, support candidates foroffice through PAC66, a political action committee that is funded exclusively throughvoluntary contributions from eligible employees and members of the board of directors. It isregistered with the Federal Election Commission, and contributions are reported monthly.Employees participating in PAC66 are not reimbursed — directly or indirectly — for politicalcontributions or expenses. PAC66’s board of directors is comprised of a broad cross-sectionof company employees. The board approves all PAC66 disbursements, which are made solelyin the best interest of the company and its shareholders, and not according to the personalagendas of individual directors, officers or employees. PAC66 contributes to state and federalpolitical candidates who support responsible energy industry activities and other businessissues of interest to the company.Trade associations are advocates on many issues, including climate change. We use ourclimate change position and principles when evaluating a trade association&#39;s position onspecific legislation or regulation. Participation in a trade association, including membership onits board, does not mean that the company agrees with every position the association takeson an issue. When our corporate position differs from that of the association, we seek to workwith the association members to promote reasonable compromise on major initiativesaffecting our business and stakeholders. Additionally, we are active members in localChambers of Commerce and other civic organizations where our operating assets arelocated. A list of these organizations can be found in our Political Giving and Activity Policy.Analysis of trade associations&#39; alignment with our positions are detailed in our LobbyingActivities Report, available on our website. Bayway Refinery LINDEN, NJTRADE ASSOCIATIONS We participate in industry trade associations where we sharetechnical and standards expertise and lessons learned from incident investigations. We alsodevelop best practices and take part in public education efforts regarding issues of commonconcern to our industry. Our participation in trade and industry associations is subject tomanagement oversight by our Government Affairs team, which serves as the principalrepresentative in such associations and recommends memberships to our ExecutiveLeadership Team. We regularly review associations and memberships to ensure that theycontinue to serve our business needs. Phillips 66 pays regular membership dues to severaltrade associations, some of which use a portion of those dues for nondeductible state andfederal lobbying and political expenditures. Following the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, thesetrade associations provide us with documentation of the part of our annual dues that isattributable to lobbying expenses. We disclose these contributions in our Political Giving andActivity Policy. GOVERNANCE43OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTCybersecurity We recognize the increasing threat of cybercrimes and enforce comprehensiveCorporate Information Security policies, standards and technical controls to protect theconfidentiality, integrity and availability of the company&#39;s systems and informationassets. These policies and standards, followed by all business units, align with recognizedcybersecurity frameworks and industry best practices. At a corporate network level, Phillips66 applies controls and processes to actively monitor, detect, prevent and respond toexternal cybersecurity threats. Every inbound email is inspected for malicious activity.External threats are mitigated through external penetration testing conducted by independentthird-party specialists. For internal business-critical process control networks, specificcontrols are implemented to mitigate the risk of cybersecurity threats. These controls include,but are not limited to, the segregation of process control networks and systems from thePhillips 66 corporate network and external networks. The Phillips 66 Digital Security teamprovides information security operational support and general cybersecurity guidance for alllocations. The team is also responsible for general and specific employee awarenessprograms that promote good cybersecurity habits. A privacy program has been implementedto protect personal information assets. Phillips 66 Risk Management standards require regularinformation security risk assessments for business units and projects. These assessmentsinclude internal networks and systems, as well as third-party suppliers and partnerassessments. We’ve also selected leading managed network service providers to deliversecure broadband network services with secure transaction and settlement processing forreliable and secure payments. These system elements are reviewed annually by third-partyassessors to demonstrate ongoing compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data SecurityStandards. Each year, we conduct a range of IT audits across the company’s IT infrastructure,networks, systems, applications, operational processes and procedures to ensure compliancewith our Information Security policies and standards. Process control network assuranceaudits are done on a rotating schedule with coverage at each facility on a cycle of no greaterthan five years. As part of the Business Continuity Plan development, all corporate IT systemsare assessed for business criticality with key systems and data included in the IT DisasterRecovery Plan (DRP). The DRP supports the resumption of corporate IT services related toessential business processes in a major unplanned event causing significant damage or lossto the infrastructure.