Operating Excellence:Health And Safety Phillips 66 is proud to be one of the energy industry’s safest and most reliable companies. We believe that a zero process safety incident and zero injury workplace is achievable. Operating excellence, including personal and process safety, environmental stewardship and asset availability, is critical to meeting our corporate strategy of growth, returns and distributions. While our Combined (employees and contractors) Total Recordable Rate increased slightly from 0.14 in 2018 to 0.15, the severity of injuries decreased in 2019. Our Lost Workday Case Rate improved from 0.05 in 2018 to 0.03 in 2019. Safety is at the forefront of every decision we make and every action we take. Safety and environmental performance are so important that they are part of our compensation structure for executives and all employees. We use benchmark data to measure ourselves against others in our industry and target improved performance in safety, environmental stewardship and effective management of unplanned downtime. Our view is that safety is not defined by the absence of failure, but by the presence of positive controls and a willingness to learn. We are committed to protecting the health and safety of everyone at our worksites and in the communities where we operate. Our HSE policies, programs and procedures embody this priority. Our commitment is reflected in our investment in asset maintenance and integrity. Two principles guide us: taking the time to work safely and having the courage to speak up and stop work if a safety concern is identified. Lake Charles Refinery Process Safety Campaign Policies and Management Systems Our HSE policy defines our commitment to HSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM protecting our workforce, customers and communities while executing our strategies for growth, returns and distributions. The policy applies to anyone working in our facilities, including contractors. We integrate our health, occupational safety, process safety and environmental principles throughout our businesses, with a commitment to continuous improvement that minimizes our potential impact on our neighbors and the environment. We also consult with stakeholders on environmental issues. Leadership The Health, Safety & Environment Management System (HSEMS) provides the framework to reduce risks and improve performance. It establishes a continuous improvement process for policy implementation, leadership expectations and core values. The HSEMS guides our entire workforce, including labor and management, experienced workers and new hires, contractors and subcontractors. The HSEMS focuses on operating excellence and facilitates HSE performance and compliance with regulations, key standards, procedures and guidelines. Our rules apply to all of our business units and are often stricter than regulatory requirements. Core standards include reporting, metrics, crisis management, emergency response, due diligence, incident investigation, risk assessment and corporate auditing. Our rigorous auditing protocols enable us to assess our performance and progress frequently. On-site inspections are conducted by both third-party auditors and Phillips 66 internal auditors who are trained to recognize health and safety best practices and are committed to report and investigate deviations or noncompliance. We share examples of this important work in the sections that follow. All Phillips 66 sites have HSE controls and practices, along with HSE management and staff dedicated to excellence and risk mitigation. Our senior vice president of HSE and Projects has direct responsibility for the HSEMS and reports directly to the CEO. HSE considerations are embedded into every task and business decision. If we can’t do something safely, we won’t do it. PLAN Risk Assessment Legal Requirements and Standards of Operation Strategic Planning, Goals and Objectives DO Structure and Responsibility Programs and Procedures Asset and Operating Integrity Emergency Preparedness Awareness, Training and Competency Non-Conformance, Incident and Near-Miss Investigation and Corrective Action Communications Document Control and Records ASSESS Measuring and Monitoring Audits ADJUST Review “Every person walking through our gates has the right to stop unsafe work, and if the job can’t be done safely, then we just shouldn’t do it.” – Greg Garland, Chairman and CEO Anyone working at or visiting our sites is empowered, and expected, to stop any work they believe poses a risk to themselves, the people around them or the environment. We train our whole workforce to “stop when unsure.” No employee or contractor will ever receive negative consequences for using their stop-work authority in good faith, even if it turns out that there wasn’t actually a hazard. Employees and contractors are rewarded through the company’s Good Catch program. This is another way we hold ourselves accountable for everyone’s safety, every day. In conjunction with the HSEMS, our 10 Life Saving Rules (LSR) program is fundamental to Phillips 66’s safety culture. All employees are trained on LSR. These rules are clear and concise, and apply to all routine and critical activities. They enhance safety performance, and they benefit both individuals and communities by preventing injuries. LIFE SAVING RULES • Protect against falls & dropped objects • Verify line-up & containment • Control hazardous energy • Follow safe rigging & lifting practices • Operate vehicles & industrial equipment responsibly • Perform excavations safely • Assess & mitigate hazards before working • Properly plan & execute hot work • Work in confined spaces safely • Maintain safety system protection Asset Integrity Ensuring the integrity of our assets is a crucial HSEMS component. To minimize asset integrity risks associated with operations and equipment failure, we have developed programs and procedures to ensure proper asset design, fabrication, installation, operation and maintenance. Asset integrity programs include quality assurance/quality control, defined inspection and maintenance intervals for process equipment, and meeting required company standards. These high-tech integrity programs and processes are designed to prevent unintentional releases of product and protect everyone at our facilities and in the surrounding communities. Many of our company’s process safety and environmental standards exceed industry requirements, promoting our goal of an incident-free workplace. Over the last five years, we have funded $17 billion in capital through investing $10.2 billion in growth projects and $6.8 billion in environmental protection projects and sustaining capital. We invested more than $1 billion in safety, environmental and reliability projects in 2019. Of that total, approximately $600 million was spent on projects in refining. DIGITIZING OUR FIELD PROCESSES The Digital Operations and Maintenance (DOM) project uses analytics and digital technologies to enhance field activities and increase reliability, productivity and safety. The project includes elements such as digitizing operator rounds, improving mechanical integrity data integration, using machine analytics to improve equipment monitoring, and improving energy management by increasing data visibility to operators. In 2019, Phillips 66 completed 115 workstream implementations across 12 refineries and six midstream regions, positively affecting the work of more than 5,000 employees, or 34% of the Phillips 66 workforce. Improved processes use mobile devices such as smart phones, tablets and mobile apps to capture data real time, streamline and digitize field activities, and eliminate the need for paper forms. Before implementing these processes companywide, Phillips 66 ran six digital pilots at the Lake Charles Refinery to optimize each process. We then conducted on-site trainings and addressed employees’ questions and concerns to promote collaboration and adoption of the new processes. The effective teamwork across business units and our Information Technology organization resulted in cutting-edge solutions for our field processes and set the Pipeline Integrity We manage more than 22,000 miles of pipeline and deliver over 1 billion barrels of crude and liquid products annually through our pipeline systems, making Phillips 66 one of the largest liquids pipeline operators in the United States by barrel-miles. More than 1 billion barrels of crude and products That’s about were delivered safely 3 million barrels through our operated each day. pipelines in 2019. 1B 3MM Over the past five years, pipeline operators have reduced the number of liquids pipeline incidents impacting people or the environment by 36%, even as pipeline miles and barrels delivered have risen. More information about our community engagement with regard to pipelines can be found in Chapter 4 of this report. Pipelines remain one of the safest ways to deliver the energy we use every day, delivering products safely without incident 99.999% of the time. Our approach to safety is rooted in prevention, maintenance and emergency preparedness. Elements of these programs include exacting design and construction standards, comprehensive pipeline maintenance, 24/7 remote line monitoring, leak detection, community education programs and strong relationships with emergency response teams across our asset footprint. We visually inspect pipeline rights-of-way bi-weekly, primarily using aerial pipeline patrols. We look for potential signs of leaks and any other pipeline integrity threats, such as unauthorized digging or exposures. We are recognized for our efforts to go beyond regulatory requirements. We conduct real-time monitoring of our pipelines. Our highly trained control room staff continuously monitors the operations and pressure in each pipeline. At the first sign of a pressure change, which could indicate a leak, an employee will shut down the pipeline as a precautionary measure until the matter is understood and resolved. Our proactive approach in this area continues to draw positive attention from government and other partners. We also have an industry-leading maintenance program using smart tools that enable us to inspect and assess the interior of our pipelines and identify maintenance needs from the inside before any leak can occur. When we build or repair pipelines, we use a variety of state-of-the-art techniques to ensure asset integrity. As an example, horizontal directional drilling (HDD) technology is used in environmentally sensitive areas, allowing us to bury pipelines deep underneath riverbeds, preventing pipeline exposures. We have spent approximately $130 million to enhance resilience at river crossings. Gray Oak Pipeline, Taft Storage Facility ADVANCING PIPELINE INSPECTION RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY Phillips 66 is a long-time member of the Pipeline Research Council International (PRCI), a global collaborative research development organization by and for the pipeline industry. The PRCI recently started the Technology Development Center (TDC) that is a pipeliner’s “technology playground.” Pipeline companies send pipe samples with numerous types of defects to the TDC and conduct tests which can’t be done while a pipeline is in operation. We have worked with TDC since 2017, and in 2019, our involvement and leadership in PRCI went to the next level, working for the greater good of the industry by creating a pipe defect repository. We replaced eight segments of pipe from locations that have historically presented challenges to collecting inline inspection (ILI) data. We sent the pipe segments with defects to the TDC and invited vendors to inspect them using smart pigs and laser scanning robots inside the pipe and advanced nondestructive examination methods to scan the exterior of the pipe. The vendors created 3-D images of the pipes, providing “truth data” of actual defects and a more accurate ILI validation set than traditional ILI tools. The response from vendors was overwhelming, and Phillips 66 extended the availability of the pipe sections at TDC. The many positive outcomes include shaping the company’s dig criteria based on actual learnings, helping select the most appropriate ILI tools and service providers for future integrity work, and improving analysis of complex defects. As an early adopter of new technologies and a learning organization, Phillips 66’s Midstream group brought engineering interns, newly-hired engineers and cross-functional business unit partners from Refining and Marketing to the TDC for technology demonstrations and engineering development programs. The TDC research has the potential to benefit all aspects of sustainability – communities, environment, safety and economic performance. Safety Performance Our safety culture, comprehensive HSE policies, management systems and the commitment of employees and contractors who work for us resulted in an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) TRR of 0.15 in 2019, which is 25 times lower than the overall U.S. manufacturing average. The chart below shows the safety performance rate of Phillips 66 and the refining industry compared to several other sectors. TRR* BY INDUSTRY Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2018 data; Phillips 66, 2019 data 5 4 All industries including private, state and local government 3 2 1 0 Food  Retail trade  Construction  Motion picture  Electric power  Petroleum  Phillips 66  manufacturing  and video  generation,  reﬁneries  industries  transmission  and  distribution  *TRR is a standardized OSHA personal safety metric and represents the number of OSHA-deﬁned incidents per every 200,000 hours worked (equivalent to 100 workers who each work 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year). Process Safety Process Safety Events (PSEs) are unplanned or uncontrolled releases of a hazardous material. We closely monitor and measure our performance in this area. Phillips 66 works to eliminate PSEs by applying best practices in design, engineering, operations and maintenance. We also perform hazard analyses and use change management procedures to mitigate risk. We routinely audit our safety, mechanical integrity, operating and maintenance programs. We investigate serious incidents and near misses in order to develop corrective actions and capture learnings. We create and improve our procedures to ensure employees and contractors are aware of hazards and how to address and mitigate them. We measure our performance in process safety and use metrics to look for trends. American Petroleum Institute (API) Recommended Practice 754 defines Tier 1 and Tier 2 PSEs. Tier 1 PSEs are the most significant type of unplanned or uncontrolled release of material from primary containment. Each Tier 1 event is investigated to determine the underlying causes so we can act to prevent recurrences. Analysis of our Tier 1 PSEs has informed our continued focus on mechanical integrity and human performance to address the causes of these events. Our goal is zero process safety events. FOCUS ON PROCESS SAFETY Our 2019 Tier 1 PSE rate of 0.06 was higher than the rate achieved over the last three years, but still close to industry average. We recognize the need to be proactive and continually improve. Our focus areas are: • Strengthening safeguards against the highest risks; for example in 2019 we established a new group of eight Phillips 66 Process Hazard Analysis facilitators to improve consistency and quality to drive a reduction in risk for our highest consequence scenarios • Applying industry-leading techniques to improve human performance and prevent process safety events • Reducing risk through improved learning. This includes leveraging participation in trade associations to build a database of industry incidents and learnings which can be used to provide targeted safety advice to front line workers at the right time in the right place Overall HSE Performance Phillips 66’s progress in HSE performance is evident in our recordable rates, number of process safety events and reduction in environmental events. It is our goal that everyone who works at or visits our facilities goes home safely every day. Performance is the outcome of relentless focus on details and on our programs, such as the 10 Life Saving Rules, mechanical integrity audits, and continued training on leadership skills in our business units. All of our business units complete an annual report on risks. It includes a list of risks and corrective actions, risks identified and closed during the year, and a separate explanation of all risks that have been open five years or longer. Business unit managers verify compliance with company risk management requirements. The reports are reviewed and signed off by each subsequent level of management. Ultimately, a complete report is developed containing the status of the risk items throughout the company and is reviewed with the CEO and summarized for the Public Policy Committee. We operate 24/7/365, and our work can be complex. We recognize that achieving zero incidents requires continuous vigilance, so we proactively perform focused audits on major work activities such as energy isolation, startup/shutdown activities, valves in proper position to prevent releases, procedures and human performance tools. Continuous Improvement Each of our sites conducts a monthly safety committee meeting during which employees, managers and union representatives review goals, safety practices and audit results and work together to keep an open dialogue focused on continuous improvement. It is an important forum to discuss key safety topics such as the 10 Life Saving Rules program and continuing education opportunities. These meetings are also an opportunity to share specialized knowledge from experts such as industrial hygienists and OSHA representatives. We hold more frequent meetings within our field staff groups and perform job safety analyses for each field job. We hold large-scale company training summits every three years; the latest training was held in 2018. We gather people from every health and safety committee in the company to share best practices, goals and performance milestones. Attendees gain new techniques and skills and capture learnings that can be implemented at their home facility. The summits have also been a great way for union leaders and Phillips 66 management to maintain open dialogue and speak with a unified voice about safety. Our next summit is planned for 2021. We also hold periodic contractor safety summits, during which all of our major contracting companies meet with us to set expectations and goals, share best practices and keep lines of communication open. Our October 2019 contractor safety forum set clear safety expectations and shared Phillips 66’s safety systems, processes and intelligence with senior leaders from the 50 largest contracting companies that support Phillips 66. Together, these companies employ 200,000 workers. Because Wnot all of those employees work at Phillips 66, the potential positive impact broadens and and these events are an opportunity to serve the greater good throughout the industry. ELECTRONIC WORK PERMITTING REDUCES PAPER WASTE AND IMPROVES OPERATIONS While Phillips 66 has used Electronic Work Permitting (EWP) in its Midstream operations since 2016, in 2019 we expanded EWP as part of our digital transformation efforts. EWP is a way to identify and mitigate risk by using a standardized system with universal permit requirements, terminology and approval processes across the company. It is transforming our Refining business from a history of paper permitting to a fully electronic system, which reduces waste and allows refineries to more efficiently and safely complete routine and major maintenance projects, such as turnarounds. The Lake Charles Refinery piloted the EWP program and used it to plan and execute two major turnarounds in 2019. The largest turnaround required more than 14,000 permits and 515,000 direct workhours. EWP helped streamline the permit process, facilitated better communication between maintenance and operations and ultimately helped the refinery achieve its best safety performance ever recorded. EWP is being implemented at all Phillips 66 refineries. HSE Audits and Assurance Our facilities are subject to rigorous internal and external audits and government inspections; our operations are actively managed to ensure continued asset integrity. HSE performance is verified through robust assurance processes that involve corporate staff and business unit employees. Each business unit establishes and maintains auditing processes to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of HSE controls and compliance with legal requirements and standards of operation. Joint venture partnerships and contractors are included in the auditing process. There are hundreds of audits conducted each year across our assets. These include corporate HSE audits, audits of specialized operations, such as hydrofluoric acid alkylation units, business unit self-audits, trade association assessments and third-party safety audits. Audits are documented and include a process for communicating results to management as well as provisions for periodic review and corrective actions. We are also involved in numerous industry-improvement and standard-setting committees of the American Petroleum Institute (API), American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) and the Association of Oil Pipe Lines (AOPL). Our facilities follow industry-leading quality management systems, and many are certified to international standards. These efforts have made our sector, and specifically Phillips 66, safety leaders across U.S. industries. Through our occupational health and industrial hygiene program, we evaluate our workplaces for health hazards to ensure that we protect everyone at our facilities. Employees and contractors report both actual incidents and near misses that have or could have resulted in injury, property damage or environmental impact. We learn from these situations, identifying and addressing the causes to reduce the risk of recurrence. Emergency Preparedness While we strive to eliminate incidents, we are prepared to respond to emergencies and work with local, state and federal agencies. Our Emergency Response Management System provides a model for building and maintaining crisis management and emergency response plans. Each facility has a written emergency response plan that includes a process for identifying potential emergencies and planning for mitigation and control. Employees are trained for their responsibilities and assignments under each scenario. Drills are conducted frequently and critiqued so plans can be adjusted as needed. Emergency response plans and documents are fully reviewed each year. At the corporate level, the company maintains a Crisis Management Plan with personnel in place to provide useful and prompt support to supplement actions taken in response to an emergency. The company also utilizes Regional Response Teams to support businesses during significant emergencies. In our annual emergency response drills, we use realistic scenarios to ensure that both our Emergency Response Organization and the community around our facilities are prepared to respond to emergencies. Participation by local and corporate leaders ensures high standards for training and competence for our on-site first responders. Our teams of first responders protect people’s lives and secure the area in an emergency. We invest in training, sending emergency responders to premier institutions such as the Fire Service Institute at the University of Illinois and the Emergency Services Training Institute at Texas A&M University. We extend this specialized training beyond our first responders, covering the costs for firefighters based near our refineries so they can train alongside our teams. This partnership better serves the communities where we operate. In 2019, we conducted more than 350 exercises and emergency response drills based on real-life scenarios across our Refining, Midstream and lubricants operations. Each of our business units also completes multiple notification accountability drills for emergencies and one tabletop exercise every year. Tabletop drills are discussion-based sessions which simulate emergencies and roles and responses. At Midstream and lubricants sites, there were 204 qualified individual/incident commander notification drills, 36 equipment deployment exercises and 51 tabletop exercises. In addition, we hold dozens of exercises for other scenarios, including process safety management and risk management fire or vapor cloud scenarios, at least two annual supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) failure exercises, responses to real world events, government initiated unannounced exercises, earthquake responses, hurricane exercises, continuity of business, or pandemic exercises. If there’s ever an interruption of operations, we have written business continuity plans to responsibly resume manufacturing and transporting energy products to markets around the world. This video from Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) shows how pipeline operators work with local, state, tribal and federal agencies. >350 Exercises and emergencyresponse drills 204 Qualified individual/incident commander notification drills 36 Equipmentdeploymentexercises Community Safety and Preparedness Our core safety value means we are also committed to working together to help protect communities. We believe that preparation and emergency management systems are crucial to safety and security. We participate in community safety and preparedness programs and proactively support local police, fire and emergency management personnel to bolster community safety departments. Building local capacity for resilience and preparedness is part of our commitment to our values, human rights, environmental protection and rapid response. To this end, we provide every community where we have facilities with equipment, experience or other resources. ENDURING COMMITMENT TO WATER SAFETY In partnership with the USA Swimming Foundation, we continued support for the Make a Splash Tour presented by Phillips 66, a swim program that tours U.S. cities each year, raising awareness for water safety and aiming to teach every child in every U.S. community how to swim. In 2019, three Olympians attended an event in Corpus Christi, Texas, teaching children how to swim and hosting drowning prevention classes. A national research study by the USA Swimming Foundation and the University of Memphis found that 64% of African-American children, 45% of Hispanic/Latino children and 40% of Caucasian children can’t swim. Studies show that children who learn to swim are not only safer near water, but they’ll also teach their own children to swim in the future, propagating a cycle of safety. Since 2007, the Make A Splash program has raised $6.2 million to provide swim lessons and has reached over 7 million children. Programs like this serve the greater good for generations. Emergency Preparedness Donations In 2019, we supported community needs, including the American Red Cross’ tornado and flood relief in northeast Oklahoma, Tropical Storm Imelda relief and California wildfire relief. Our donations also include national and community organizations, local first responders, and other programs, such as these: TRAINING AND TRAINING EQUIPMENT Billings Police Department, Montana Blackwell Fire Department, Oklahoma Karnes City Volunteer Fire Department, Texas Linden Fire Department, New Jersey University of Illinois, Illinois Fire Service Institute VEHICLES AND VEHICLE EQUIPMENT Kinney County Fire & Rescue, Texas LaSalle County Fire and Rescue, Texas Monahans Volunteer Fire Department, Texas Rodeo-Hercules Fire Protection District, California Whatcom County Sheriff’s Office, Washington FUEL AND SUPPLIES Copan Fire Department, Oklahoma Elk City Fire Department, Oklahoma Houston Police Foundation, Texas Oglesby Civil Defense Volunteer Fire Department, Oklahoma Osage Hills Rural Firefighters Assoc., Inc., Oklahoma Ramona Volunteer Fire Department, Oklahoma Volunteer Fire Department of Ochelata, Oklahoma Washington County Fire Department, Oklahoma SAFETY, COMMUNICATIONS AND MEDICAL EQUIPMENT American Red Cross of Greater Los Angeles, California Brazoria County Fire Fighters Association, Texas City of Bartlesville Fire Department, Oklahoma City of Westlake Fire Department, California Coalinga Fire Department, California Crockett-Carquinez Fire District, Contra Costa County, California Laramie County, Wyoming, Fire District #6 Morgan County Ambulance, Colorado Morgan County Fire & EMS, Colorado Old Ocean Volunteer Fire Department, Texas Osage County 911/Emergency Management Agency, Oklahoma Plaquemines Parish Sheriff’s Office, Louisiana Platte Valley Fire District Foundation, Colorado Reagan County Fire and EMS, Texas River’s End Volunteer Fire Department, Texas Scott County Emergency Management, Kansas South Adams County Fire Department, Colorado Story Volunteer Fire Department Sweetwater County Fire District #1, Wyoming Uinta County School District #1, Wyoming Veteran Fire District in Goshen County, Wyoming Whatcom Hospice Foundation, Washington DISASTER RELIEF American Red Cross, National American Red Cross - Northeast Oklahoma Chapter Tri Lakes Volunteer Fire Department, Montana United Way of Central Missouri Washington County Emergency Management, Oklahoma York Volunteer Fire Department, Montana COMMUNITY AND NATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY INITIATIVES American Red Cross, National Belle Chasse YMCA, Louisiana Big Brothers Big Sisters Lone Star, Texas Boys & Girls Clubs of Union County Partnership, New Jersey City of Linden Police Department, New Jersey Crime Stoppers of Houston, Texas Crisis Text Line, National Kaw Lake Education Foundation, Oklahoma Los Angeles Metropolitan YMCA, California Memorial Hermann Foundation, Texas Ponca City, Oklahoma Fire Department Truckers Against Trafficking, National United States Coast Guard Foundation, National Wichita Festivals Inc., Kansas ANATOMY OF A SAFE, RELIABLE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT TO ENHANCE ENERGY SECURITY During the planning for all pipeline projects, we take environmental and social considerations into account and work to identify community needs and wants. Here are a few key steps: • We seek existing pipeline corridors where feasible to minimize the impact on the environment, local communities, wildlife and cultural resources. We use advanced construction techniques like horizontal directional drilling to reduce or avoid impacting natural habitats and waterways. • From the early stages in the planning process, we work with key agencies to ensure a project complies with all applicable regulations and laws, including the Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act, National Historic Preservation Act and others. To make this happen, we coordinate and engage with many agencies, including the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and state and local-level regulators. • We have collaborated with Native American tribes and historical associations to identify any archeological or other sites of significance along the route. • We partner with environmental conservation and biodiversity groups in the region and support education and emergency response efforts in local communities along a pipeline’s planned route. For example, we’ve invested in STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts and math) education and school district support and provide training and funding to local emergency response agencies to purchase equipment. 300+ 94% Over 300 million barrels Refining utilization Development of the of pipeline throughput rate at 94% largest Midstream growth moved through the project portfolio in the Beaumont Terminal history of our company Gray Oak Pipeline  Record Fractionator-1  Started 25,000 BPD  achieved safe start-up  (frac) rates at  (barrels per day)  Sweeny Refinery  isomerization unit at Lake  Charles Refinery  10,000 DieselFlex project startup  Improved clean product  Successful launch of  at Borger Refinery to  yield through fluid  hydrocarbon value chain  increase high-value  catalytic cracking (FCC)  organization  products 10,000 BPD  unit optimizations  at Bayway and Wood  River refineries 