Environmental Stewardship Operating excellence leads to strong environmental performance. We proactively work to protect the environment and minimize our impact by focusing on process safety and operating with advanced environmental controls. Our industry is highly regulated, and Phillips 66 complies with the many local, state and federal regulations that affect our operations, including air emissions, water effluent and solid waste handling. We strive to eliminate all environmental events, especially those that result in exceedances of permit or regulatory limits, and work to prevent significant releases of hydrocarbons or chemicals. Compliance with our HSEMS, as detailed in the Operating Excellence chapter, helps ensure our operations minimize the impact on the environment. The HSEMS creates environmental awareness internally and is the framework for consistently implementing and maintaining an environmental management system and monitoring our environmental performance. Over the last five years, from 2015 to 2019, we invested approximately $7 billion in environmental protection projects and sustaining capital. These $6.8Binvestments in assets improve our operating standards, procedures and business assurance programs. We use energy and resources efficiently, invest invested in in research and development, and support habitat and conservation programs. environmental Our investments in technology improve our assets, products and processes and sustaining to be more efficient and to capitalize on emerging opportunities as the energy capital 2015-2019 market transforms. FUEL STATIONS WITH A SMALLER ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Our JET® stations across Europe demonstrate environmental consciousness through use of energy and water and other innovations to protect the environment. We’re conserving resources through several efforts including: • Station design that includes energy-saving LED lights • Seals and doors on store refrigerators to reduce cooling-related energy consumption • Climate controls that heat and cool fuel station buildings more efficiently • Technical standards that meet the highest environmental standards at the service stations for all parts of the system and continuously improve these standards • Car wash facilities that keep fresh water usage to a minimum through biological water treatment • BlueDEF, an exhaust fluid to help lower emissions from diesel-powered vehicles • Reducing packaging waste by investing in ways to help consumers refill BlueDEF via pump Environmental Stewardship and Excellence Continually improving the management of our operations also results in a steady reduction in the number of immediately reportable environmental events, which are defined as the exceedance of a permitted environmental limit or regulation. Our business units have internally audited multiyear plans for environmental improvement. Our business unit operations are dynamic, and our “Plan-Do-Assess-Adjust” approach allows our HSEMS to be proactive and achieve environmental improvement. We have an efficient operating model that helps us drive consistent performance and achieve excellent financial results while also stewarding significant environmental improvements and standardizing compliance practices where it makes sense. Yet we want to improve further. Our Environmental Steering Teams network champions site-level improvement, tracks and reviews key metrics and assists development of local improvement plans. Those plans are then assessed at the corporate level for holistic implementation that ensures effective use of resources. Leadership directs efforts to reduce environmental events and increase work practice consistency. Additionally, peer reviews of air permits, along with active environmental networks, allow subject matter experts in areas such as air monitoring, leak detection, waste management and water treatment to work across functions. They share best practices and lessons learned to define “what good looks like” and drive sustainable improvement. Monitoring Environmental Performance Operations at each of our sites are monitored around the clock to ensure compliance with numerous environmental and operating permit requirements. We have established, and adhere to, environmental operating limits (EOLs), which require personnel to take action before reaching our permit limits. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has positively recognized our use of EOLs at our refineries. We believe EOLs allow operations to respond quickly to eliminate some environmental events and help reduce the severity and impact if events do happen. ISO Certifications Our facilities follow quality management systems, and many are certified to International Organization for Standardization measures. 100%Our lubricants business conforms to the ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System. Our lubricants plants have achieved certifications to ISO 14001 and the ISO 9001:2015/ of lubricants IATF 16949:2016 Quality Management System Standard, where plants are ISO 14001 applicable. Lubricants Research and Development is accredited and ISO 9001 certified. to the ISO/IEC 17025 standard for competence of testing and calibration laboratories. Bayway Refinery’s polypropylene business in Linden, New Jersey, is certified to LRQA ISO 9001:2015 for the design and manufacturing of pellets. We take great care to contain pellets and mitigate any loss. Pellets are transported via pipe to an on-site storage silo, which creates a closed system. From there, product is blended and fed into rail cars for transportation to customers. We inspect the rail cars for operable and closed caps and valves. Environmental performance also includes collecting scrap and vacuuming sumps to recycle pellets and keep them at our facilities, along with booms and vacuum trucks for clean-up should a spill occur. Our Bayway facility management and employees are committed to Operation Clean Sweep and support the goal of zero plastic pellet loss. Wood River Refinery’s odorless mineral spirits and benzene business lines in Roxana, Illinois, conform to the ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System Standards. Humber Refinery in North Lincolnshire, U.K., is working to transition to the new ISO 14001 standard and is currently certified to the 2015 version. Air Emissions We have made significant investments to reduce air emissions. Since 2012, air emissions of sulfur oxides (SOx), nitrogen oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) have decreased 28% company-wide, including 22% from our refining business unit. U.S. INDUSTRY CRITERIA POLLUTANT EMISSIONS (SO2, NOX, PM, VOC, CP) (Million tons) Utilities, Industrial & Other 100 80 60 40 20 0 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1996 1999 2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 . Industrial & Other . Utilities —— Petroleum Reﬁning 5 4 3 2 1 0 Petroleum Reﬁning Our actions and resulting decrease in criteria pollutant emissions are part of an overall, long-term reduction from all industrial sectors in the United States. The EPA National Emissions Inventory data chart above illustrates that the refining sector emissions (right hand axis) are on an order of magnitude lower than total industrial emissions (left hand axis). These environmental improvements occurred while national refining throughput increased over the same time period. AIR TECHNOLOGY AND RESEARCH Our established air research program is grounded in the subjects of volatile organic compounds, particulate matter formation, source apportionment, measurement and modeling. A current effort is research in secondary organic aerosol and the formation of ozone. The work focuses on how these substances behave, and the chemical reactions that occur in the atmosphere. Our initial findings on secondary organic aerosols were published in the February 2019 issue of Atmospheric Environment, and our findings on ozone formation were presented at the American Geophysical Union fall 2019 meeting. We have also moved forward on our air quality monitoring research. This includes a continuous review of currently available remote gas detection technologies and their applications in leak detection, and low-cost air sensors to better understand data quality and the potential for use at our operations in the future. Last year, Phillips 66 chaired the Atmospheric Impact Committee of the Coordinating Research Council. This nonprofit organization directs, through committee action, engineering and environmental studies on the interaction between automotive/other mobility equipment and petroleum products. Hydrocarbon Spills Our operations and mechanical integrity systems are designed to keep the crude oil and refined products we transport in the pipes. We emphasize early identification and immediate shut down if there is a breach or spill. When an accident occurs, despite primary and secondary containment safeguards, we quantify, report and study it to avoid repeat occurrences. Data on spills beyond secondary containment are in our data table at the end of this report. In 2019, the volume dropped 51% compared to 2018; one incident accounted for 40% of the volume spilled beyond secondary containment. We identified the causes and implemented corrections to prevent recurrence through proactive measures including adjusting pressure cycles, running additional advanced inspection technology tools, and using data analytics to prioritize increased inspections and repairs. We are improving the integrity testing of pipelines and using data analytics to reduce the risk of failure from seam cracks. We are applying our technical resources and know-how through joint studies with the Pipeline Research Council International and OneBridge Solutions, Inc. and support of the technology advancement and deployment recommendations in the 2019 National Petroleum Council study on future infrastructure needs to 2040. Water Management and Use Water is an essential resource in our manufacturing facilities and processes. All our refining assets have on-site water treatment systems, and many of them use available brackish, salt or nonfresh water, or have industrial reuse processes. Phillips 66 researches and develops best practices for water use to ensure we will have sufficient, sustainable water resources well into the future. We use the World Resources Institute AqueductTM Water Risk Atlas to identify areas with high water demand or potential for water scarcity in the future. These analyses help us prioritize projects to improve our efficiency and decrease our environmental footprint in areas where they can have the greatest impact. SHARING BEST PRACTICES ON WATER TREATMENT Phillips 66 is an active member of the Water Environment Federation’s Industrial Wastewater Committee (IWWC). Our research team authored two chapters in the IWWC’s book of case studies on minimum liquids discharge (MLD). The book, “Industrial Water Reclamation and Reuse to Minimize Liquid Discharge,” is scheduled to be released in 2020 and will be a high-level review and resource for professionals in the area of water and wastewater treatment. One chapter, “MLD Technology Applications—Refining,” provides examples of positive steps that refiners around the world, including Phillips 66-owned and -operated refineries, are taking to conserve, reuse and recycle water. The second Phillips 66-authored chapter, “Fundamentals of Absorption and Ion Exchange,” could play a significant role in helping companies address water reuse and recycle challenges. Phillips 66 also is engaged with the Petroleum Environmental Research Forum on a project to better understand the impact of unconventional crude processing on wastewater treatment operations. Long term, the objective is to improve oil-water separation at Phillips 66 refineries, which can also benefit the entire industry. We also evaluate new technologies and products to decrease our water footprint and to recycle more water. One of these new technologies helps reduce nitrogen in wastewater streams, which, according to the EPA, improves water quality and protects wildlife and water resources. After several years of screening technologies in the lab, in 2019, we started a field trial of advanced technology at our Humber Refinery with promising results. We collaborated with the University of Texas at Austin to investigate new membrane technologies that will allow refineries to more efficiently separate oil and water, improving our ability to recycle those resources and reduce waste. Waste Management and Recycling We track every raw material used in our manufacturing process at 100% of our lubricants plants. In 2019, we recycled nearly 1,100 tons of scrap material from those facilities, including cardboard, 9MM* bottles, cans, pallets and shrink wrap. Pounds of Waste Phillips 66 has a systematic hazardous wastes program, with Used for Fuel processes and practices executed by trained personnel. Each of our operating sites has environmental professionals whose expertise is supplemented by corporate staff. For some materials, the best option is incineration, but when possible, we recover, 4,500recycle or reuse materials. The principle of circular economy applies when we find ways to Tons of Waste Kept exhaust resources, such as residual product that’s removed when Out of Landfills we clean refinery tanks. We must dispose of the residual product *MM = millions in compliance with rigorous environmental laws. But instead of incinerating it or using some other method of disposal, we can work with contractors to transport the waste to manufacturers in other industries. In 2019, one contractor moved more than 9 million pounds of waste from our sites in California, Louisiana and Texas to locations where it can be used as an alternative fuel source. Using the waste as fuel keeps byproducts out of landfills. In 2019, we kept more than 4,500 tons of waste out of landfills, an increase of 2,000 tons over 2018 levels, and provided more than 1.5 million gallons of waste-derived fuel, up from 866 million gallons in 2018. OPERATION CLEAN HOUSE Phillips 66 supports Operation Clean House, an annual household hazardous waste education disposal and recycling event that is offered free of charge to the community in Bartlesville, Oklahoma. In the 30 years since the inaugural event in 1989, over 350,000 pounds of hazardous waste and 725,000 pounds of electronic waste have been collected. The combined efforts of the Phillips 66 organizing committee and the greater Bartlesville community allow for the safe disposal of household hazardous waste while providing a safer, healthier environment for us all. Biodiversity and Conservation Our environmental and sustainability strategy includes enhancing conservation and managing biodiversity risks. Phillips 66 mitigates impacts to biodiversity through planning processes aimed at reducing the effects of our activities on the environment. We address biodiversity conservation during the planning and development of major capital projects by conducting environmental impact analyses, collecting key environmental data and implementing mitigation and monitoring programs to reduce impacts and assure results. COASTAL BIODIVERSITY EFFORTS Support for coastal conservation comes in the way of voluntary actions, such as monetary contributions and employee volunteer projects. Many of our efforts are focused regionally at the refinery level. GULF COAST: The Lake Charles Manufacturing Complex teamed up with the Coastal Conservation Association of Louisiana to host 100 students for a coastal restoration project at Prien Lake. Phillips 66 employees worked alongside students to plant more than 4,000 native plants on floating islands made from recycled plastic bottles. This created more than 2,000 square feet of new wetland habitat along the shoreline to prevent coastal erosion and enhance the ecosystem. Since 2017, Lake Charles has financially supported coastal conservation projects. NORTHEAST: The Bayway Refinery has been a supporter of the Superstorm Sandy Resiliency project since 2015, an effort administered by the EPA and NFWF to mitigate flooding for families living in and around Linden, New Jersey. Over the last five years, Phillips 66 has contributed to projects ranging from hydrology studies to building rain gardens to floodplain restoration. PACIFIC NORTHWEST: The Ferndale Refinery is an active supporter of salmon habitat rehabilitation, donating to the Nooksack Salmon Enhancement Association in 2019 along with engaging in an employee volunteer project. The refinery’s employees have also been active in local beach cleanup and invasive species removal, which enhance biodiversity. WEST COAST: We support the International Bird Rescue in California. The San Francisco Refinery supports coastal and watershed cleanup and restoration efforts and sponsors a youth program that works to improve the environment in the Carquinez Strait region. The Santa Maria Refinery focuses its support on the Land Conservancy’s efforts to preserve and enhance the habitat of the endangered Nipomo Lupine plant species. The Los Angeles Refinery is a long-time contributor to the Palos Verde Land Conservancy as well as the International Bird Rescue. REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGY AND RESEARCH With our commitment to being good partners in the communities in which we operate, Phillips 66 is investigating and developing novel approaches for the groundwater and soil remediation. We do this in an effort to reduce the time and cost of remediation activities and to generate more effective solutions for the industry’s most challenging remediation concerns. In 2019, Phillips 66 began research to develop custom polymers to improve our ability to remove contaminants from groundwater and soil. The anticipated result is increased quality of remediation, with more treatment options and quicker time to site resolution. We also added capability when we brought an advanced molecular biology technique in-house. The addition of this technique improves turnaround time for analyzing water and soil samples: It now takes days instead of weeks. With development, this technique has the potential to allow us to create customized remediation solutions based on site soil samples and to better monitor results. This reduces the risk of treatment failure because, otherwise, it might take months or longer to determine whether an effort has had the desired result. PARTNERS IN THE COMMUNITY We promote biodiversity, environmental stewardship and conservation by providing resources to address issues that are important to the people who live near our facilities. We also collaborate with local environmental and conservation organizations and national partners. We have longstanding partnerships with many conservation organizations, including the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF), Ducks Unlimited and the Wildlife Habitat Council. We support their efforts through company donations of money and resources. Our employees volunteer their time and make monetary contributions – many of which are matched by the company – and even our summer interns take advantage of opportunities to volunteer. Phillips 66 is a long-term sponsor of the San Bernard National Wildlife Refuge, and our 2017 donation to the Gulf Coast Initiative continues to provide resources for preserving the Texas and Louisiana coasts and wetlands. DECADES OF DEDICATION TO OUR COMMUNITIES Our commitment to our vision — providing energy and improving lives — is evident in many ways. Each of our facilities contributes to the surrounding community, from providing good jobs and benefits to donating time, money or both to causes that support our values of safety, honor and commitment. Several of our refineries reached milestone anniversaries in 2019 that reflect dedication to the communities where we live and work. Humber Refinery 50th celebration The Humber Refinery in the United Kingdom celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2019, with a firm focus on inspiring the next generation of engineers. Refinery staff raised money for local schools and charities and volunteered over 2,000 hours for engineering, educational and environmental projects. With a refinery vision of “Fueling the Future for Our People, Our Communities and Our Customers,” the refinery also launched the Humber ChemBox project in partnership with Birmingham University. The project enables science teachers from regional secondary schools to reach more than 5,000 students through industry-focused experiments facilitated by Phillips 66 and aligned with the national curriculum. Billings Refinery turns 70 Since 2012, Billings Refinery in Montana has donated over $1 million to Project Lead the Way, a program dedicated to promoting the STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) curriculum for Billings schools. Supported by a Citizens Advisory Council established almost 30 years ago, in 2019, the refinery also donated to Rocky Mountain College to fund a virtual reality classroom. The refinery also earned ENERGY STAR®  certification in 2019. Los Angeles Refinery Centennial Los Angeles Refinery celebrated 100 years of operations in 2019. With sites in Carson and Wilmington, California, the facility employs more than 900 people and generates significant positive economic and social impact in the community. The Los Angeles Refinery Community Advisory Council (CAC) includes approximately 80 community leaders and is instrumental in fostering open dialogue, building partnerships and prioritizing local concerns and needs in the cities of Carson, San Pedro, Wilmington and the greater South Bay Los Angeles region. Last year, Phillips 66 directly donated funds to more than 30 community partner organizations focused on health and safety, environmental advocacy and educational outreach. 