Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Analysis We include our TCFD analysis inour governance chapter to provide you with a look at how we are assessing and mitigatingrisks and opportunities associated with climate change. GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT OFCLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES At Phillips 66, risk management starts withour board of directors and its committees providing oversight of strategic planning. Ourgovernance structure provides the board and executive leadership the necessaryopportunities to exercise their oversight responsibilities concerning risks, including thoserelated to climate change, and our executive leadership is responsible for the strategic andoperational management of climate-related financial risks and opportunities. The board andmanagement review long-term energy outlook scenarios and leading indicators annually andas a consideration in business planning. The Audit and Finance Committee monitors ourenterprisewide risk management program more frequently. It also reviews company controls,compliance and ethics. The board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee considersenvironmental, social and political trends and risks to guide the company’s long-termbusiness objectives. OUR VISION At Phillips 66, our commitment to providing energy andimproving lives extends to every aspect of our business. As the global population grows,access to affordable, reliable and abundant energy is needed to drive human progress andthe need for global action to reduce GHG emissions increases. We strive to increase theefficiency of our diversified operations. Our integrated portfolio provides ongoingopportunities to strengthen our competitiveness and maximize upside in the near term andmitigate downside risk longer term. Our strong balance sheet, scale, commercial acumen,leadership in research and innovation, and growth opportunities within our expanding lower-carbon portfolio contribute to our long-term resilience. Technology development anddeployment are needed to provide energy now and achieve energy transition goals consistentwith the Paris Agreement. To test our financial resilience under multiple scenarios, weconsider a range of possible long-term energy outlooks, and we evaluate and mitigatepotential risks, including climate-related risks. We adjust our plans to capture newopportunities considering technology developments, policy changes and consumer energydemand.Los Angeles Refinery WILMINGTON, CA46PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCLIMATE-RELATED RISKSMARKET — OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICESThe deployment of disruptive new technologies at mass scale within government policyenvironments that These are risks that may impact financial results. They strongly incentivizeinvestment and innovation would include any that may materialize over the current annualreporting cycle and up to a five-year time frame. have long-term impacts on oil and naturalgas demand and prices. Potential Short- and Medium-term RisksREGULATORY — EMISSIONSOur industry is highly regulated, and we comply with the many local, state and federal lawsthat affect our operations, including those on air emissions. Our Health, Safety andEnvironment Management System (HSEMS) facilitates HSE performance and compliance withstandards, procedures and guidelines that often exceed regulatory requirements and areconsistently applied by all business units.To mitigate this risk, Phillips 66 remains committed to ongoing scenario analysis, responsiblerisk management, and transparency about our financial and portfolio resilience and how weare preparing to adapt for the longer term. PLANS FOR OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE ARESUBJECT TO SOCIETAL AND POLITICAL PRESSURESPlans to expand or construct assets and plans for future performance, including our jointventures, are subject to We have made significant investments in environmental projects,including efforts to reduce emissions that focus risks associated with societal and politicalpressures and on efficiency, resilience, adaptation and renewable fuels. other forms ofopposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. Suchrisks For more details, see the Risk Management section of could adversely impact our resultsof operations. this report. Although it is not possible to predict how future GHG emissionslegislation would impact the company’s business, legislation or regulation that emerges overthe medium- to long-term that imposes reporting obligations on, or limits emissions of GHGsfrom, the company&#39;s equipment and operations could require the company to incurcosts. PHYSICAL RISK — BUSINESS CONTINUITYCLIMATE-RELATED OPPORTUNITIES Providing Lower-carbon AlternativesBy 2030, our Emerging Energy organization is targeting $2 billion of EBITDA (earnings beforeinterest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) contributions through investments that areconsistent with our disciplined approach to capital and emphasis on returns.We&#39;re evaluating our assets and increasing our supply of renewable fuels. We continueto assess new opportunities within our portfolios and with We have developed an EmergencyResponse third parties. While doing so, we remain focused on Management System and CrisisManagement Plan based operating reliability. on risk evaluations and business impactanalyses. Each facility has a written emergency response plan to ensure We commercializepremium coke for the world&#39;s lithium-ion battery anode market using petroleum coke,continuous availability, or prompt recovery, of critical a byproduct of our refining process.business processes, resources and facility operations. The company is also assessing longer-term technologies, Potential Long-term Risks including carbon capture, lower-carbonhydrogen These risks may fundamentally impact the viability production for multipleapplications and the development of our long-term strategy and business model. They ofhydrogen fueling networks. include risks that may materialize over a five- to 10Investing inTechnology Development year time frame. We enhance our business programs and initiativeswith research to improve our operations and provide a science-based approach. Thecompany is prepared for the possibility of extreme weather events that might impact ouroperations.We invest in the development of lower-carbon technologies such as OPVs, SOFCs and next-generation batteries.GOVERNANCE47OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTSCENARIO ANALYSIS Today, the world population is close to 8 billion, and it&#39;s expectedto increase to 8.5 billion people by 2030 and nearly 10 billion by 2050. The U.S. EnergyInformation Administration anticipates petroleum and other liquid fuels will remain theworld&#39;s largest energy source in 2050, with renewable energy sources, including solarand wind, growing the fastest. The rising global population, coupled with higher standards ofliving, will increase pressure on Earth&#39;s natural resources, with implications for theenergy transition. As the energy transition progresses and evolves, Phillips 66 will continue toadjust its strategic plans accordingly. We assess proprietary and public long-term energydemand scenarios in our corporate strategy planning, such as IHS Markit, the IEA StatedPolicies (STEPS), IEA Sustainable Development (SDS) and IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050scenarios. Considering this range of scenarios allows us to test our portfolio across a widerange of potential environments. We formulate views on potential market fundamentals,regulatory developments needed under various scenarios, and emerging risks andopportunities under various market conditions. We are then able to identify changes to ourstrategy in light of the results. We consider implications to our capital allocation, growthopportunities, potential mergers and acquisitions, and which lower-carbon investments topursue.PRIMARY ENERGY DEMAND BY FUEL TYPEGLOBAL LIQUIDS DEMAND(Billion Tons of Oil Equivalent)(Million Barrels per Day)018n Biomass16n Wind/Solar14n Bioenergy12n Hydro n Nuclear101020304050607080901001102010 2015 2020n Natural Gas8n Oil*62030n Coal20354 220400 2010 2015 2019 2020 2030 2035 2040 Source: IEA-World Energy Outlook-October 2021(STEPS) *oil includes oil products, NGLs, biofuelsn IHS Markit (May &#39;22) n OPEC (Sep &#39;21)n IEA STEPS (Oct &#39;21) n Actualn IEA SDS (Oct &#39;21)Sources: IEA, IHS, OPEC. Copyright S&amp;P Global 2022, IHS Markit forecast is shown forIHS Markit’s reference case published in the Annual Strategic Workbook, Apr, 2022Business Planning Our business planning process utilizes several inputs to develop a range offorecasts to inform our capital allocation decisions and enable sustainable, resilient andprofitable operations. We consider metrics for key strategic, physical and policy variableswithin our scenarios. Our decision-making processes include consideration of key climatepolicies, energy mix, energy efficiency, access to capital, tax, reputational, technological andhuman capital risks and opportunities. As a result of our scenario planning, we invest ininfrastructure to meet global energy needs. We are investing in heat recovery hardware,process controls and energy dashboards that enable operators and engineers to improve theenergy efficiency of our pipelines, refineries and fractionators. We are converting our Rodeofacility in California to make lower-carbon fuels, and in the United Kingdom, we are expandingrenewable fuels production at our Humber Refinery. We are evaluating potential investmentsin the EV battery supply chain, carbon capture and lower-carbon hydrogen.48PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEffects on Our Assets The potential physical effects of climate change and severe weather onour operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic andenvironmental factors present at the various sites where our businesses are located. We havesystems in place to manage potential acute physical risks that could have an adverse effecton our assets and operations, including those that may be caused by climate change. Wehave incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to protect our assets from physical risks and toemploy processes to the extent available to mitigate such risks. Many of our facilities arelocated near coastal areas. As a result, extreme weather and rising sea levels may disrupt ourability to operate these facilities or transport crude oil, refined petroleum, or petrochemicaland plastics products. Extended periods of such disruption could negatively affect ouroperations. We could also incur substantial costs to prevent or repair damage to thesefacilities. Finally, depending on the severity and duration of any extreme weather events orclimate conditions, our operations may need to be modified and material costs incurred,which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.AT A GLANCECore Components of Planning and Management1. Mitigating physical risks2. Forecasting policy risksPhillips 66 operations are affected by nature — droughts, floods, hurricanes, storms, heat,cold and earthquakes. We have substantial systems and processes to help us identify,measure, manage and mitigate risks associated with each of these possibilities.We are subject to changing laws, regulations and judicial opinions; community, national andglobal preferences; and contractual obligations. We have developed sophisticated, multilevel,integrated systems to anticipate, inform, manage and comply with these requirements andexpectations. For clarity, we include cybersecurity risks because cybersecurity can spanpolicy and technology.3. Seeking technology opportunities As an energy company focused on both the present andthe future, we realize the value of our in-house research and development center staffed withscientists and engineers. This differentiator enables us to create solutions to current andfuture physical or policy risk challenges. Our ERI team members analyze and developtechnologies and evaluate feasibility, economics, scalability, key milestones and timing. Theyfind ways to increase clean product yields and overall energy efficiency; make our operationssafer, more reliable and more sustainable; reduce water risks and other environmentalimpacts; and manage changing regulations and expectations. The solutions we developbenefit our company, our customers and our communities. For more details, see the Researchand Innovation section in this report.GOVERNANCE49OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTRISK MANAGEMENT At Phillips 66, we use a detailed and disciplined process to identifypotential risks and opportunities that could significantly impact our business. Enterprise RiskManagement Our enterprise risk management program provides a systematic approach toidentifying and understanding significant risks, including climate-related issues, changes inenergy policy, and physical or operational risks. Our strategic planning and scenario planningseek to manage our businesses&#39; risks while evaluating opportunities to execute ourstrategy. Experts from all areas of our business units and functions — including Refining,Midstream, Commercial, Marketing and Specialties, Corporate Strategy, Research, Finance,Treasury, Tax, Legal, Compliance, Government Affairs, Community Relations and Environment,Social and Governance — are actively involved in our risk management program andprocesses. Our Risk Management team works to identify risks falling into any of thecategories described above that could affect our overall policies and governance, strategydevelopment, business units, forecasts and capital allocation decisions, among others.Additionally, our Risk Management team provides detailed, regular, timely and relevantinformation to our board of directors and Executive Leadership Team. This information is oneof many inputs that enables our board and its committees to oversee and guide our companyeffectively. In our program we: • • • •Quantify the risks based on our assessment of the probability of each risk and the potentialsignificance of its financial, reputational or other impacts Assess each of these risks in light ofpotential mitigating strategies or factors that may be available Assign values to eachmitigating factor based on assessments of potential timing, costs, effectiveness and otherfeatures Include assessments of potential GHG emissions policies and impactsEach of these risks has a corporate owner, creating accountability within our organization.Management directs, and the board oversees, the enterprise risk management program andprocesses.RISKS TO OUR BUSINESS • • • • • • •50Physical environmental factors, risks associated with weather or climate, and our efforts andability to measure, report and control GHG emissions The impact of regional or global energyaccords and related forecasts of program impacts and costs Financial variables, including thelikely location, scale and duration of all tax regimes, including carbon taxes Evolving investoropinions and initiatives Community, cultural, political and public opinion factors that couldinfluence where, when and how we operate and at what cost Demographic, scientific,technological, reputational and human capital matters Trade leakage, which can result whenimported goods transfer from one jurisdiction to anotherPHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTIdentifying, Assessing and Managing Climate-related RisksClimate-related risks are integrated into multiple larger risk categories because of theinterconnected nature of these risks across multiple categories. We test our assumptionsagainst CO2 cost-forecasting, energy-efficiency indices and best practices, carbon capturetechnology and cost, and renewable fuels forecasts, alongside regulatory requirements. Dataon our GHG emissions, legal requirements regulating such emissions and the possiblephysical effects of climate change on our assets are incorporated into our planning,investment and risk management decision making. We account for anticipated GHG emissionswhen we are designing and developing facilities and projects and implementing energy-efficiency initiatives that also reduce GHG emissions. Regulatory certainty and economicviability are integral considerations. We test a variety of future scenarios that could have amaterial impact on the company and variables that may be associated with an incident. Thissystem ensures we mitigate risk to the company and conduct regular gap analyses. It alsoenables us to position the company to benefit from energy efficiency, emissions reductionsand other business and policy goals. Processes for Managing Climate-related RisksEFFICIENT ENERGY USEEnergy expenditures can account for a significant portion of a refinery&#39;s operatingexpenses. We capitalize on opportunities to reduce these expenses, such as improvements inheat exchange or recovery, furnace controls, and steam optimization. Since our inception in2012, six of our 11 U.S. refineries have earned U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR® certifications forperforming in the top 25% of similar facilities nationwide for energy efficiency and meetingEPA performance levels. Our headquarters building in Houston, Texas, is certified as aLeadership in Energy and Environmental Design Platinum facility. Additionally, seven of ourrefineries have associated cogeneration units. Cogeneration uses a single fuel source toproduce both electricity and heat simultaneously. The process helps us meet ourmanufacturing needs and converts heat that would otherwise be lost into thermal energy topower our process equipment. Three cogeneration units — at Los Angeles and San Franciscoin California and Sweeny in Texas — are owned by Phillips 66. Any excess power not used inour facilities is sold to the local utility market. Four other refineries — in the Texas Panhandle,New Jersey, Washington state and the United Kingdom — purchase some of their heat orelectricity from third-party-owned cogeneration units adjacent to our facilities. The Sweenycogen unit produces power for the refinery and CPChem petrochemical plants. During normaloperations, we can export as much as 165 megawatts of electricity to the local power grid.That’s enough to power 100,000 homes. During Winter Storm Uri, in 2021, we increased thatoutput to 370 megawatts, doubling our impact. To accomplish that, we shut down operatingunits, minimizing our energy usage and maximizing our output to the community. We have anactive Energy Best Practices network of representatives from all our refineries and majorcorporate support groups, including Refining Business Improvement, ERI and IT. Members ofthe network meet regularly to share information about technology, experiences at their plantsand ongoing energy conservation projects. EFFICIENT WATER USEAccess to water, maintaining its quality and using it efficiently are critical elements insustainable energy production. Therefore, our facilities have wastewater systems and oilrecovery units. These units separate reusable water from oil streams, reducing freshwateruse and improving discharged water quality. For more detail, see the EnvironmentalStewardship section in this report.GOVERNANCE51OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTRESILIENCE AND ADAPTATION We maintain and test robust business continuity planning andpreparedness programs and other initiatives. Examples include: •• •Hardening assets to enhance their reliability, including our industry-leading pipeline rivercrossing program and the power substation elevation at Bayway Refinery in Linden, NewJersey Installing a state-of-the-art power distribution facility at Wood River Refinery inRoxana, Illinois, improving facility reliability and reducing flaring from unplanned eventsProviding comprehensive community awareness, education and outreach programs to ensurethat everyone living or working near pipelines or facilities is aware of their existence, adoptssafe digging practices, learns the signs of a potential pipeline leak and knows how to respondquickly if a problem is suspectedGHG METRICS AND TARGETS The majority of our GHG emissions are from refining. Our goalis to improve our operational excellence, improve our energy efficiency and reduce our GHGemissions intensity. We have set a goal for our refining sites to achieve top-third energyefficiency by 2030. We use a third-party industry manufacturing energy-efficiency index tomeasure our progress. In the fall of 2021, Phillips 66 became an ENERGY STAR Partner toreflect our commitment to improving energy efficiency. Our refineries process a combinedaverage of about 2 million barrels per day of crude oil into clean, affordable everyday energyproducts. Most of our Scope 1 GHG emissions are CO2, resulting from manufacturing energyproducts. Our methane and other GHG emissions are negligible. More stringent regulatorystandards can require more processing, which takes more energy.Sweeny Hub Fractionator 4 OLD OCEAN, TX52PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTIn 2021, we announced 2030 targets to reduce the GHG emissions intensity of our operations(Scope 1 and 2) and products (Scope 3) by 30% and 15%, respectively, from a 2019 baseline.*These medium-term targets are tied to projects currently underway and projects that areplanned or under development consistent with the company’s disciplined approach to capitalallocation and focus on returns. These projects: • •• • • •Improve the energy efficiency of our operations Grow production and blending of renewablefuels and lower-carbon supply chain products such as premium coke and lubricants Producecommercial-scale low-carbon-intensity hydrogen Capture carbon from our operationsIncrease renewable power sources to use in our operations Support enterprise growth andportfolio optimizationOur 2030 targets are based on many factors, including planned projects that may beimpacted by future equipment turnarounds and maintenance periods. These periods can varyby two to five years and may be affected by operational, materials or labor availability, andmarket demands. As a result, reductions are not anticipated to be ratable year over year. In2021, we advanced permitting for conversion of our Rodeo facility, decided to convert theAlliance Refinery to a terminal and progressed several other lower-carbon initiatives. *Ernst&amp; Young LLP provided limited assurance for certain 2019 GHG dataIn 2022, we continue to progress our planned projects and are on track to meet our emissionsintensity reduction targets. For more details on GHG data, see the Performance Data sectionof this report. Achieving our 2050 target to reduce Scope 1 and 2 manufacturing-relatedemissions intensity by 50% will require changes beyond Phillips 66’s sphere of influence andcontrol, such as: • • • •Advancements enabling broad commercial deployment and use of lower-carbon technologiesGlobal policies that fund and incentivize the development of a lower-carbon energy systemChanges in consumer behavior and energy choices Available materials throughout the supplychainOur commitment to sustainability is also reflected in changes to our employee bonusprogram. In 2021, the board’s Human Resources and Compensation Committee increased theweighting of environmental factors in our Variable Cash Incentive Program from 5% to 15%. Inaddition, we added metrics for advancing lower-carbon investments, optimization andinnovation, reducing manufacturing emissions intensity, and setting GHG emissions-intensityreduction targets. Phillips 66 recognizes the importance of credible disclosure toshareholders. Reputational and potential economic harm could result from setting emissionsreduction targets outside our current understanding of feasible and economic pathways. Weare committed to reassessing our targets in step with technological developments, policychanges and consumer energy demand trends.