Climate Change and TCFD Analysis At Phillips 66, we provide energy that improves lives and meets the world’s growing needs. Affordable, reliable and abundant energy is essential to sustaining human health and well-being while simultaneously improving the global standard of living. Climate change is a global issue that requires long-term commitment, action by every segment of society, technology development and free-market solutions. Phillips 66 recognizes the climate challenge and is making investments that advance a lower carbon future. To sustain the affordable, reliable and abundant energy we make, Phillips 66: • Has a long-term strategy that, over time, positions the company for the future growth of lower greenhouse gas (GHG)-emitting segments, such as Midstream and Chemicals, while maintaining our core operations • Executes programs and initiatives to enhance the resilience of our assets • Manages GHG emissions from our operations through measuring, reporting and developing technology to improve energy efficiency to lower GHG emissions • Seeks growth and new manufacturing opportunities and uses of assets in a lower carbon economy, including: – Premium coke, which is a component in batteries for electric vehicles (EVs) and electronic devices – Synthetic lubricants, which improve engine efficiency – Blending renewable fuels – Evaluating hydrogen production from renewable sources – Producing nonpetroleum-based diesel made from renewable sources, such as food waste and agricultural sources • Drives energy research in our state-of-the-art technology center, in support of energy transition including, sustainability technologies, innovation and analytical sciences, to support operating business units and identifying new technology Lake Charles Refinery Principles for Climate Policy Energy and environmental issues are important to policymakers and to Phillips 66. A comprehensive climate program must recognize that all forms of energy are needed today and in the future. Phillips 66 supports policies that are applied broadly, have one layer of regulation, address economic concerns, and are transparent to the consumer with clear and measurable benefits. As policymakers seek to shift to a lower-carbon economy, regulations must: • Acknowledge the complexities in serving the world’s energy needs and recognize that all forms of affordable energy, including fossil fuels, will be required • Be approached from an economically and technologically feasible perspective, balancing benefits and long-term societal needs, and protecting the environment • Manage GHGs on a global basis using pragmatic and science-based solutions • Promote public, fundamental research at the pre-commercial stage to advance energy solutions • Ensure any regulatory cost on the consumer is transparent and economy-wide • Be national and, for consistency, pre-empt state or local programs and requirements Our corporate strategy is designed for the long term. It is based upon operating excellence and delivers growth, enhances returns, provides shareholder distributions and supports people development. We’re investing to grow infrastructure to move energy and meet global needs. Our strategic and scenario planning seek to manage the risks our businesses face while evaluating opportunities to execute our strategy. TCFD Analysis Globally, we face the dual challenge of providing affordable energy to support economic growth and human prosperity while addressing the environmental effects of that development, including the risks of climate change. Our four integrated business units — Midstream, Chemicals, Refining, and Marketing & Specialties — produce transportation fuels and the materials necessary to create products for modern life and deliver them at scale. In this section, we disclose our governance, strategy, risk identification, and management and measurement of climate risks — policy and physical — and opportunities in alignment with the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) core elements below. Core Elements of Recommended Climate-Related Financial Disclosures GOVERNANCE The organization's governance around climate-Governance related risks and opportunities STRATEGY Strategy The actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization's Risk businesses, strategy, and ﬁnancial planning Management RISK MANAGEMENT The processes used by the organization to identify, Metrics assess, and manage climate-related risks and METRICS AND TARGETS Targets The metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities GOVERNANCE Oversight of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities At Phillips 66, risk management starts at the top. Our board of directors and its committees oversee and guide the company. Risk oversight is conducted by the full board and committees. Our governance structure provides the necessary opportunities for the board and executive leadership to exercise their oversight responsibilities with respect to risks, including those related to climate change. The full board reviews long-term energy outlooks and leading indicators annually. It hears from outside experts on subjects of strategic interest. The Audit and Finance Committee monitors our enterprise-wide risk management program on a more frequent basis, as well as company controls, compliance and ethics. The full board is included in the Public Policy Committee, which identifies environmental, social and political trends and risks to guide Phillips 66’s long-term business objectives. Specifically, the Public Policy Committee of the board: • Reviews compliance with health, safety and environmental matters, and reviews the results of internal scenario planning and analysis related to the effects of environmental and social trends and uncertainties • Reviews major decisions to assess exposure to and management of environmental, social and political trends and risks, including climate risk • Reviews, and makes recommendations on, the company’s compliance with policies, programs and practices regarding health, safety and environmental protection, government relations and political contributions, corporate philanthropy, and sustainability matters • Receives updates from subject matter experts Management owns the company strategy, risk management and capital allocation. We have a strategy council made up of executives that guides the development of our strategy, including climate risks and opportunities. Business continuity plans and opportunities are developed through business unit leaders who report to management. GLOBAL TOTAL LIQUIDS INTENSITY AND DEMAND STRATEGY Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities Energy is essential to human survival. Harnessing it to do work allows civilizations to flourish. Because of its importance to the quality and the length of human life, the search for more accessible, reliable and affordable energy has been a constant throughout history. The sources of the energy people rely on continue to evolve. Phillips 66’s strategic scenario planning hinges on understanding this evolution and being proactive in positioning for the future. BOE Demand per $1,000 of GDP 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2019 Total Liquids Intensity IEA Global Oil Demand (RHS) Sources: IEA (2019) World Energy Outlook, Stated Policies Scenario for Global Total Liquids Demand. All rights Reserved.  Oxford Economics 110 100 90 80 70 60 Million barrels per day Today, there are roughly 7.7 billion people in the world, yet more than 840 million of them have little or no access to electricity. The global population is expected to increase 10% to 8.5 billion people by 2030 and to 9.7 billion by 2050, a 26% increase. The International Energy Agency projects that this will create a 30% increase in demand for all modern sources of energy. The rising global population, coupled with increases in the standard of living, will put more pressure on the earth’s resources and have implications for the amount and sources of energy the world will need. PRIMARY ENERGY DEMAND BY USE  PRIMARY ENERGY DEMAND BY FUEL TYPE  Billion Tonnes of Oil Equivalent  Billion Tonnes of Oil Equivalent  25  20  20 15 10  . Petrochemicals . Buildings . Transport . Industry . Power Generation  18 16 14 12 10 8  . Biomass . Wind/Solar . Bioenergy . Hydro . Nuclear . Natural gas . Oil  6  . Coal  5  4  2  0  2010 2018 2025 2040  2000 2010 2018 2025 2030 2040  Sources: IEA (2019) World Energy Outlook, Stated Policies scenario for Global Total Liquids Demand forecast.  All rights reserved. Even with advances in energy efficiency and increased availability of nonfossil fuel sources of energy, there will still be demand for fuels and products from carbon-based sources. Fossil fuels will continue to make up a significant portion of the global energy future. We believe our business is sound and resilient to future policy or physical impacts and technology disruptors. Financial Planning and Scenario Analysis Our strategic planning process considers a variety of information and inputs from multiple sources to develop a range of capital allocation scenarios to inform our investment decisions. Long-term energy demand is a key consideration in our strategic planning analysis from which we develop our long.term views. We also look at other risks and opportunities in our strategic planning process including changes to key climate policy, energy mix, energy efficiency, access to capital, tax, reputational, technological and human capital. This robust scenario analysis enables sound financial choices to ensure sustainable and resilient operations. We are investing to grow infrastructure to move energy and meet global needs. Our business model includes work on engine and fuel optimization, pipeline energy optimization, refinery efficiency, instrumentation and controls upgrades, heat recovery hardware, and energy dashboards that enable facility operators to make real-time decisions that enhance energy efficiency. Pasadena Terminal The specific climate change risks we believe are relevant to our business are: • Physical environmental factors, risks associated with weather or climate • Our efforts and ability to measure, report and control GHG emissions • The impact of energy accords and climate-related regulations (global or regional) and related forecasts of program impacts and costs • Financial variables, including the likely location, scale and duration of all tax regimes, including carbon taxes • Evolving investor and other stakeholder opinions and decision-making initiatives • Community, cultural, political and public opinion factors that could influence where, when and how we operate and at what costs • Demographic, scientific, technological, reputational and human capital matters • Trade leakage Our analysis considers a range of scenarios, several of which are shown below. Included is the IEA Sustainable Development Scenario, which presents itself as aligned with the Paris Agreement. GLOBAL OIL DEMAND (MMBD) — IEA Current Policies — IHS Markit — U.S. EIA — OPEC — Energy Aspects — IEA Stated Policies — IEA Sustainable     Development IEA Sources: IEA (2019) World Energy Outlook, Current Policies, Stated Policies, Sustainable Development scenarios. All rights reserved. Three Core Components of Planning and Management of Climate Risks and Opportunities: 1. Physical risks: Phillips 66 operations are subject to influence by nature — droughts and floods, hurricanes and storms, heat and cold, and shifting tectonic plates. We have substantial systems and processes to help us identify, measure, manage and mitigate risks associated with each of these possibilities. Our assets are built to detailed engineering standards that consider these risks. Each of our assets has a risk profile based on its geographic location. For example, our facilities that share a common hurricane risk, in the Gulf Coast and Northeastern regions of the United States, have thorough hurricane preparedness procedures. Our procedures address numerous issues pertaining to physical risks ranging from operating personnel safety, staffing, unit shutdowns and restarts, availability of emergency preparedness equipment and stakeholder communications. Implementing these procedures protects stakeholders and our assets from physical risk by triggering specific actions, such as proactively staging equipment and materials. We update our preparedness procedures based on lessons learned and learnings from sites with similar risks. Additionally, we assess the need for asset hardening, and execute these initiatives where appropriate. More information can be found in the resilience and adaptation section in this chapter. 2. Policy risks: We are subject to changing laws, regulations and judicial opinions; community, national and global preferences; and contractual obligations. We have developed sophisticated, multilevel, integrated systems to anticipate, inform and shape, and manage and comply with these requirements and expectations. For clarity, we include here cybersecurity risks, recognizing cybersecurity can span policy and technology. 3. Technology opportunities: Phillips 66 has a cutting edge research and development center in Bartlesville, Oklahoma that conducts basic and long-term work toward energy solutions. This puts us in a position to better address current and future challenges associated with physical or policy risks, not just for ourselves, but for our customers, communities and industry. We analyze technologies through a scientific lens to make our operations safer, more reliable and more efficient, to reduce water risks and other environmental impacts, and to manage changing regulations and expectations, including climate. To support planning and management, we further break down risks into short-, medium-, and long.term horizons. We define these as follows: • Short-term risks are those that may impact near-term financial results, including any that may materialize within the current annual reporting cycle. • Medium-term risks may materially impact our financial results due to longer-term manifestation of climate-related impacts that may require us to significantly adjust our strategy over a two- to five-year timeframe. • Long-term risks may fundamentally impact the viability of our long-term strategy and business model, and may materialize over a five- to 10-year timeframe. We assess the materiality of climate-related risks based on their likelihood of occurrence and the estimated magnitude of resulting financial impact. The materiality assessment is substantially similar to that which the company applies to all business risks and opportunities. Based on this assessment, the company has identified the following short-term, medium-term and long-term climate-related risks: Short-term • Emissions (Regulatory and Market Transition Risk) – Our industry is highly regulated, and we comply with the many local, state and federal laws that affect our operations, including air emissions. We operate in areas with regulations that address the impact of climate change, from renewable fuels standards and fuel quality directives, to low carbon fuel standards and cap and trade. We evaluate where markets are going to make decisions to ensure the company can effectively meet compliance requirements. – Our HSEMS facilitates HSE performance and compliance with standards, procedures and guidelines that often exceed regulatory requirements and are consistently applied by all business units. • Business Continuity (Physical Risk) – The company is prepared for the possibility of extreme weather events that might impact our operations. See the physical risks and resilience and adaptation sections of this chapter for more information. – Based on risk evaluations and business impact analyses, we have developed an Emergency Response Management System and Crisis Management Plan. Each facility has a written emergency response plan to ensure continuous availability, or prompt recovery, of critical business processes, resources and facility operations. • We manufacture high-quality graphite and anode coke that is used to make electric vehicle lithium ion batteries. We’re increasing our supply of renewable fuels through ventures with other companies and projects at our existing facilities. We continue to assess new opportunities with our portfolios and with third parties. While doing so, we focus on operating reliability. Medium-term • We have made significant investments in environmental projects, including efforts to reduce emissions that focus on efficiency, resilience and adaptation, and renewable fuels. See the risk management section for more information. • Emissions (Regulatory and Market Transition Risk) – There are many uncertainties about how future GHG emissions legislation might impact the company’s business. Legislation or regulation may emerge over the medium- to long-term that imposes reporting obligations on, or limits emissions of GHGs from, the company’s equipment and operations that could require the company to incur costs to reduce GHG emissions associated with our operations. Long-term • Oil and Natural Gas Prices (Market Transition and Regulatory Risk) – The deployment of disruptive new technologies at mass scale within government policy environments that strongly incentivize investment and innovation would have long-term effects on the price of and demand for oil and natural gas and derivative products. – To mitigate this risk, Phillips 66 remains committed to ongoing scenario analysis, to responsible risk management, and to being transparent about our financial and portfolio resilience and how we are preparing to adapt for the longer term. – We assess carbon reductions through all of our operations, including carbon capture and sequestration, solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) application (see the research section in this chapter for more information on SOFCs) and renewable fuels and hydrogen production. RISK MANAGEMENT The process for identifying climate risks is ongoing detailed risk planning. Some of these activities are highly proprietary — company analyses can create advantages over competitors — but the processes are not. Many energy sector veterans say that the main thing they have learned over the course of their long careers is to be humble about their ability to predict the future — even a few years out. At Phillips 66, we approach this challenge of making predictions through a detailed and disciplined process that seeks to identify the risks and opportunities that could have significant potential to affect our business. We believe that the depth and breadth of our risk management process exceed the scenario planning expectations that many stakeholders ask of us. Enterprise Risk Management Our enterprise risk management program provides a systematic approach to identifying and understanding significant enterprise risks, including climate-related risks to the company, changes in energy policy, and physical or operational risks. Experts from all areas of our business units and functions — including research, planning, finance, economics, tax, refining, transport, marketing, specialties, legal, compliance, government relations, community relations and environmental-social-governance (ESG) – are members of, or support, our risk management program and processes. Our risk management team works together to identify risks falling into any of the categories described above that could affect our overall policies and governance, our strategy development, our business units, our predictions and our capital allocation decisions, among others. In our program: • We quantify the risks based on our assessment of the likelihood of risk and the potential significance of its financial, reputational or other impact. • We then assess each of these risks in light of potential mitigating strategies or factors that may be available. We assign values to each mitigating factor based on assessments of potential timing, costs, effectiveness and other features. • We also include assessments of potential GHG emissions policies and impacts. • Each of these risks has an executive owner to create accountability within our organization. • Our risk management team provides detailed, regular, timely and relevant information to our executive leadership team and board of directors. This information is one of many valuable inputs that enables our board of directors and its committees to oversee and guide our company. We test our assumptions against CO2 cost forecasting, energy efficiency indices and best practices, carbon capture technology and cost, and renewable fuels forecasts alongside regulatory requirements. Data on our GHG emissions, legal requirements regulating such emissions, and the possible physical effects of climate change on our assets are incorporated into our planning, investment and risk management decision making. We take into account anticipated future GHG emissions in designing and developing major facilities and projects. We implement energy efficiency initiatives that also reduce GHG emissions. Regulatory certainty and economic viability are integral considerations. We test a variety of future scenarios that could have a material impact on the company, as well as variables that may be associated with an incident. This system ensures we mitigate risk to the company and conduct regular gap analyses. It also enables us to position the company to benefit from energy efficiency, emissions reductions and other business and policy goals. Processes For Managing Climate Risks Efficiencies Energy expenditures can account for roughly 40% of a refinery’s operating expenses. We capitalize on opportunities such as improvements in heat exchange or recovery, furnace controls and steam optimization. Our refineries in Billings, Montana; Ferndale, Washington; Rodeo, California; and Old Ocean, Texas have current U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR® certification. Refineries earn ENERGY STAR® certifications when they perform in the top 25% of similar facilities nationwide for energy efficiency and meet EPA performance levels. Additionally, seven of our refineries have associated cogeneration units. Cogeneration is the use  of a single fuel source to produce both electricity and heat simultaneously. The process helps us meet our manufacturing needs and convert heat that would otherwise be lost to the environment into thermal energy to power our process equipment. Three cogen units — at Los Angeles and San Francisco in California and Sweeny in Texas — are Phillips 66 owned units; any excess power not used in our facilities is sold to the local utility market. Four others — in the Texas Panhandle, New Jersey, Washington and the United Kingdom — have adjacent third-party owned cogeneration units from which we purchase steam or electricity. We have an active Energy Best Practices network of representatives from all our refineries and major corporate support groups, including Refining Business Improvement, Research & Development, and Information Technology. Members of the network meet regularly to share information about technology, experiences at their plants, and ongoing energy conservation projects. Access to water, maintaining its quality, and using it efficiently are all critical elements in sustaining energy production. All of our facilities have wastewater systems and oil recovery units. These units separate reusable water from oil streams, thereby reducing freshwater use, improving discharged water quality and conserving valuable hydrocarbons. We utilize GHG offsets, such as forestry protocols which support projects designed to mitigate CO2. We also voluntarily achieved Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certification for our headquarters building in Houston. Resilience and Adaptation Planning and Preparedness We maintain and test robust business continuity planning and preparedness programs and other initiatives: • We harden assets to enhance their reliability, including our industry-leading pipeline river crossing program, heightened levees at Alliance Refinery in Belle Chasse, Louisiana, and the power substation elevation at Bayway Refinery in Linden, New Jersey. • We have installed a state-of-the-art power distribution facility at Wood River Refinery in Roxana, Illinois, that has improved facility reliability and reduced flaring from unplanned events. • Our pipeline business provides comprehensive community awareness, education and outreach programs to ensure that everyone living or working near lines or facilities is aware of their existence, adopts safe digging practices, learns the signs of a potential pipeline leak and knows how to quickly respond if a problem is suspected. Renewable and Alternative Fuels We invest in technology to improve our assets, products and processes to be more efficient and to capitalize on emerging opportunities as the energy market transforms. That includes investment in alternative energy, as renewables are predicted to make up 28% of global energy consumption by 2050. Our commitment to renewables and alternative energy can be seen globally across the Phillips 66 value chain. We blend and sell products with ethanol and biodiesel. At select retail locations in California, Phillips 66 is increasing the offering of E85, a blend of ethanol and gasoline used in flex fuel vehicles. We prioritize renewable fuel projects that leverage existing infrastructure as we invest toward our goal of more than 340 million gallons per year of renewable diesel. Waste fats, recycled cooking oils and other renewable feedstocks will be processed into finished road fuels that have virtually the same energy content as traditional diesel, but with a lower overall carbon intensity. We use our assets and third-party terminals to sell biodiesel. Across the U.S., 23 terminals enable our customers to buy 5% biodiesel. We have a renewable diesel project at the Humber Refinery in the United Kingdom and another in development at the San Francisco Refinery in California. Additionally, the company is supporting two low carbon renewable diesel production facilities in Nevada. Those are under construction with Ryze Renewables and are expected to produce more than 150 million gallons of renewable diesel per year, which could save 2 billion pounds of annual CO2 emissions. HUMBER REFINERY’S LOW CARBON INVESTMENTS In addition to manufacturing renewable diesel and premium coke (see battery technology in this chapter), the Humber Refinery is advancing a project that uses renewable hydrogen to produce fuels at the Humber Refinery. The project, called Gigastack, aims to harness offshore wind to power electrolysis and produce hydrogen, a low-emission fuel capable of powering transportation and heavy industry, as well as multiple processes within refining. Gigastack is a collaboration between Phillips 66 Limited, Danish wind farm developer and operator Ørsted, hydrogen systems developer ITM Power, and Element Energy. The second phase of Gigastack will involve a front-end engineering design study on a 100MW electrolyzer system, which would use electricity to split water into oxygen and hydrogen gas, feeding the hydrogen to Humber Refinery for use in lowering the sulfur content of diesel fuel. It is an opportunity to develop a new renewable hydrogen market where the only feedstocks are water and renewable power. Our Swiss joint venture, Coop Mineraloel AG, in which Phillips 66 has a 49% interest, has seen success with a hydrogen fueling program launched in 2017. We plan to add more hydrogen filling stations in the near future. Research We enhance our business programs and initiatives with research so that we can improve our operations and provide a science-based approach to supporting our businesses and evaluating new opportunities. Approximately 250 scientists and engineers work in our Energy Research and Innovation organization at the 440-acre Phillips 66 Research Center in Bartlesville, Oklahoma. We conduct research to enhance the safety and reliability of our operations and to develop future air, water and energy solutions, including battery technology, organic (carbon-based) photovoltaic solar panels and solid oxide fuel cells, all for the storage or production of electricity. Details on several of these programs are below. Battery Technology With our world becoming increasingly electrified, Phillips 66’s battery program is focused on improving existing lithium-ion battery materials and on advancing research next-generation battery technologies. Petroleum coke is a byproduct of our refining process, which enables us to commercialize high-grade, proprietary graphite needle coke for the lithium-ion battery anode market. We are the premier market supplier for this key component of lithium ion batteries, which help power almost everything with an electrical circuit, including 75% of all EVs and millions of smartphones and other consumer electronics. Our Humber and Lake Charles Refineries, in collaboration with our Energy Research and Innovation organization, have grown production of grades and formulations of petroleum coke that support making better batteries for EVs. Phillips 66 Research Center Our scientists are working to develop high-performing raw materials based on market needs. This includes developing solutions that may result in increased volumes and improved costs for customers while maintaining excellent battery performance. Our next-generation battery research program is exploring alternatives to lithium-ion that incorporate readily available and responsibly sourced materials. These future technologies have the potential to address ongoing market considerations, such as extending the driving range of battery powered EVs and increasing electric grid reliability with energy storage solutions. As an example, Phillips 66 is advancing technology for sodium-ion batteries, a low-cost and green energy storage technology, that may provide a safer alternative for storage of wind and solar energy. Five patent applications have been published, and several others filed, for Phillips 66’s advanced battery technologies. Solid Oxide Fuel Cells (SOFCs)  SOFCs are electrochemical cells that generate electricity efficiently at a competitive cost, producing electricity by oxidizing a fuel, such as natural gas, through electrochemical reactions rather than combustion. Each Phillips 66 fuel cell wafer is less than half a millimeter thick and produces approximately 30 watts of electricity. Cells can be stacked together, and stacks can be bundled into modules. Phillips 66 SOFCs can generate electricity at high efficiencies from an abundant, reliable and inexpensive fuel source with more efficiency than conventional power plants. They can be paired with solar- or wind- generated power, ensuring reliable energy even during periods when the sun is not shining or the wind is not blowing. SOFCs produce no noise, have a reduced lower carbon footprint compared with conventional power plants, have no criteria pollutant combustion emissions, and are an ideal technology for CO2 capture. Their quiet, compact, modular design makes SOFCs a convenient source for on-site power for homes and businesses, ensuring reliable energy even during traditional power grid outages. In 2019, Phillips 66 made significant technical progress in multiple areas, including: • Developing several new fuel cell materials for low-operating temperatures • Dramatically reducing fabrication variability and increasing fabrication yield • Continuously operating an SOFC stack using pipeline natural gas for more than one year without significant performance degradation • Commissioning of our first 2-kilowatt fuel cell system in a real operation environment • Adding five new patent applications, representing a total of 20 patents in our SOFC intellectual property portfolio Our research was presented at the 2019 Fuel Cell Seminar & Energy Exposition, and we published our patented fabrication technique and research data in a technical article entitled “Multilayer Tape Casting of Large-Scale Anode-Supported Thin-Film Electrolyte Solid Oxide Fuel Cells” in the International Journal of Hydrogen Energy. Lubricants Technology and Research For combustion engines, we developed technology to improve our engine oil lubricants, which helps boost fuel economy and enables the engine hardware to run as efficiently as possible. We are also exploring ways to address lubrication needs in EVs. This includes emphasis on traditional and new lubricant performance parameters for a variety of vehicle electrification technologies and applications. Organic Photovoltaic (OPV) OPV is a clean energy technology for electricity generation that will enable new solar applications. This research aligns well with Phillips 66’s expertise in plastics, materials science and analytical sciences. Due to its flexible and lightweight structure, OPV will produce electricity in applications where traditional solar cells will not work, including semi-transparent applications, portable objects and disposable goods. There are also options for improving aesthetics with color, flexibility and design. We are developing OPVs that we believe can be profitable without government subsidies. We have collaborated with the Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratories in this development. Our polymers have led to breakthroughs in efficiency and longevity that help move solar technology closer to commercial viability. Our polymer-based single junction OPV cells are made without hazardous components such as lead or cadmium, which are found in other types of solar technologies. In 2019, we expanded our solar intellectual property portfolio to include eight additional patents, bringing our total to 37 in this field, and we have registered to trademark ShieldPower™ for future OPV use. Furthermore, we have advanced our efforts to test the capabilities of our materials at print scale, and we are learning from these efforts and identifying improvements. Our research team continues to show thought leadership in organic photovoltaic space. In 2019, Phillips 66 presented at several international engineering conferences and published an article entitled “Bottom-up Design of Organic Photovoltaics for Upscaling” in the International Society for Optics and Photonics: Organic, Hybrid, and Perovskite Photovoltaics Proceedings. In this article, we shared with the scientific community some of the challenges we faced in achieving what became our 2017 world record for efficiency, as well as the scaling-up problems we solved to advance this technology. METRICS AND TARGETS Our goal is to maintain and improve our operational excellence and manufacturing throughput, while improving the energy efficiency and GHG emissions of our manufacturing sites. We use a third-party industry manufacturing energy efficiency index to measure our progress. In 2019, Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHGs were 30.5 and 7.8 million tonnes, CO2 equivalent (CO2e), respectively. These emissions come from the energy it takes to make energy products. Every day, our refineries have a total capacity to process a combined average of more than 2 million barrels of crude oil into clean, affordable products. Most of our Scope 1 GHG emissions are carbon dioxide, which is a result of the energy used to refine crude. We monitor our operations to assess risks and identify opportunities to increase energy efficiency to lower emissions. Even with more stringent regulatory standards and increasing utilization of our assets, our direct GHG emissions have varied little on an absolute basis. 