CHAPTER 2 OPERATING EXCELLENCE: HEALTH AND SAFETY Phillips 66 is determined to be the energy industry’s safest and most reliable company. We believe that a zero process safety incident, zero injury workplace is achievable, and our focus on safety guides every decision we make and action we take. Safety and environmental performance are so important, they are part of our compensation structure for executives and all employees. Operating excellence, including personal and process safety, environmental stewardship and asset availability, is critical to meeting our corporate strategy of growth, returns and distributions. We measure ourselves against others in our industry for safety metrics and target improved performance in environmental stewardship and effective management of unplanned downtime. The results of that measurement are used to determine a portion of executive compensation. Our belief is that safety is defined not by the absence of failure, but by the presence of positive controls. We are committed to protecting the health and safety of everyone at our work sites and in the communities where we operate. This priority is embodied in our investment in asset maintenance and integrity and our Health, Safety & Environmental (HSE) policies, programs and procedures. Los Angeles Refinery POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Our HSE policy spells out our commitment to protecting our workforce, customers and communities while achieving our goals for growth, returns and distributions. Our HSE policy applies to anyone working in our facilities, including contractors. We integrate our health, occupational safety, process safety and environmental principles throughout our businesses, with a commitment to continuous improvement that minimizes our potential impact on our neighbors and the environment. We also consult with stakeholders on environmental issues. The HSE Management System (HSEMS) provides the framework to reduce risks and improve performance. It focuses on operating excellence, and facilitates HSE performance and compliance with key standards, procedures and guidelines that often exceed regulatory requirements and are consistently applied by all business units. Our core standards include reporting, metrics, crisis management, emergency response, due diligence, incident investigation, risk assessment and corporate auditing. We use both third-party auditors and internal auditors to conduct on-site inspections. The majority of assessments are NEW MOBILE APP HIGHLIGHTS ‘GOOD CATCH’ EXAMPLES Phillips 66 launched a mobile app for employees called MyRoute, which makes it even easier to share information, including safety learnings from stop work authority and near miss instances. This communications tool helps the workforce stay up to date on company and industry news, messages from leadership, benefits reminders and, most importantly, safety information. Because many of our employees are not working at desks, this app provides information they might not have access to otherwise. It also allows them the ability to report near misses in real time and gives the company a way to celebrate and publicly recognize individuals and teams for making Good Catches. performed by Phillips 66 personnel who are trained to recognize health and safety best practices and are obligated to report and investigate deviations or noncompliance. Our senior vice president of HSE and Projects has direct responsibility for the HSEMS, and reports directly to the CEO. Phillips 66 sites have HSE controls and practices, along with HSE management and staff dedicated to excellence and risk mitigation. HSE considerations are embedded into every task and business decision. This standard establishes a continuous improvement process for implementation of the HSE policy, leadership expectations and core values. The HSEMS  guides our entire workforce, including labor and management, experienced workers and new hires, contractors and subcontractors. If we can’t do something safely, we simply won’t do it. Two positive controls guide us: taking the time to work safely and having the courage to speak up and stop work if a safety concern is identified. Anyone working at or visiting our sites is empowered, and expected, to stop any work they believe poses a risk to themselves, the people around them or the environment. We train our whole workforce to “stop when unsure.” No employee or contractor will ever receive negative consequences for using their stop-work authority in good faith, even if it turns out that there wasn’t actually a hazard. Employees and contractors are rewarded through the company’s Good Catch program. It’s another way we hold ourselves accountable for everyone’s safety, every day. PLAN • Risk Assessment • Legal Requirements and Standards of Operation • Strategic Planning, Goals and Objectives DO • Structure and Responsibility • Programs and Procedures • Asset and Operating Integrity • Emergency Preparedness • Awareness, Training and Competency • Non Conformance, Incident and Near Miss Investigation and Corrective Action • Communications • Document Control and Records 10 LIFE SAVING RULES In conjunction with the HSEMS, our 10 Life Saving Rules (LSR) program is fundamental to Phillips 66’s safety culture. The rules are clear and concise and easy for everyone to understand. All employees are trained on LSR. These rules pertain to common but critical activities and can enhance safety performance, and benefit both individuals and communities. Lake Charles Refinery Operated Pipelines & Refineries ASSET INTEGRITY Ensuring the integrity of our assets is a key component of the HSEMS. To minimize asset integrity risks associated with operations and equipment failure, business units develop programs and procedures to ensure proper asset design, fabrication, installation, operation and maintenance. Asset integrity programs include quality assurance/quality control, defined inspection and maintenance intervals for process equipment and meeting required company standards. These high-tech integrity programs and processes are designed to prevent unintentional releases of product and protect everyone working at our facilities and in the surrounding communities. Many of our company’s process safety and environmental standards exceed industry requirements, promoting our goal of an incident-free workplace. Since 2014, we have invested more than $6 billion in environmental protection projects and sustaining capital. We invested $935 million in safety, environmental and reliability projects in 2018. Of that total, we spent $559 million for refining reliability, safety and environmental projects. PIPELINE INTEGRITY • We manage more than 21,000 miles of pipeline systems, making Phillips 66 one of the largest pipeline operators in the United States. • Liquids pipelines move crude oil to our refineries and move products such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel to market. • A leak in a liquid line can release product, so we take great care to prevent that. • Our approach to safety is rooted in prevention, maintenance and emergency preparedness. Elements of these programs include exacting design and construction standards, comprehensive pipeline maintenance, 24/7 remote line monitoring, leak detection, community education programs and strong relationships with emergency response teams across our asset footprint. • We make investments in asset inspections using aerial pipeline patrols that fly weekly over our pipeline rights of way looking for potential signs of leaks and any other pipeline integrity threats such as unauthorized digging or exposures. • We are recognized for our efforts to go beyond legislation and install real-time monitoring for our pipelines. Our control room staff continuously monitors the operations and pressure in each pipeline. At the first sign of a pressure change, which could indicate a leak, an employee will shut down the pipeline as a precautionary measure until the matter is understood and resolved. Our innovation in this area continues to draw positive attention from government and other partners. • We also have an industry-leading maintenance program that uses smart pipeline inspection gauges, or “pigs,” to inspect and assess the interior of our pipelines and identify maintenance needs from the inside before any leak can occur. • When we build or repair pipelines, we use a variety of state-of-the-art techniques to ensure asset integrity, such as horizontal directional drilling (HDD) technology, which allows us to bury pipelines deep underneath riverbeds, preventing pipeline exposures. We have spent more than $100 million to enhance resilience at river crossings. ROBOTICS: MOBILE, COMPUTER.CONTROLLED MACHINERY Phillips 66 is collaborating with the University of Texas to investigate using robots for inspection tasks, such as tank seal inspections and operator rounds. Robots have the potential to improve safety, efficiency and capability. For example, they can perform tasks in place of humans in hazardous environments such as confined spaces, at height or in remote locations. We re also involved in a project with two other companies to increase safety and simplify the inspection process for our aboveground storage tanks. Since 2016, we ve been collaborating with Square Robot, an industry leading technology developer, and Veritank, Inc. In 2019, an autonomous robot safely performed its first in service inspection of the interior of an aboveground diesel storage tank. The robot can go into a tank while it s in service and capture high clarity images of the interior, providing insight into the tank s sediment levels and coating condition. Robotic inspections reduce risk associated with tank entry and clean out, and robots save resources because the tanks don t have to be drained. We see numerous applications for this service throughout our portfolio. The next step is to work toward in service robotic inspections of gasoline tanks. SAFETY PERFORMANCE INCIDENT RATE Our safety culture, comprehensive HSE policies, management systems and the commitment of everyone who worked for us resulted in an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Total Recordable Rate* (TRR) of 0.14 in 2018 for the second year in a row. This is an industry-leading safety result and 25 times lower than the overall U.S. manufacturing average. Despite our overall safety performance, a contractor tragically died at the Alliance Refinery in 2018. We investigated what happened in order to understand and learn from this tragedy and issued a high-value learning to all business units. The data below show the TRR of our combined employee and contractor workforce. This year, we added a disclosure of our Lost Time Incident Rate, an OSHA metric focusing on accidents that result in a lost workday. PERSONAL SAFETY (incidents per 200,000 work-hours)  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  Phillips 66 Combined (employee + contractor) TRR  0.19  0.19  0.15  0.14  0.14  AFPM TRR  0.43  0.41  0.33  0.32  0.30e  Phillips 66 Combined (employee + contractor) Lost Time Incident Rate  0.03  0.03  0.04  0.04  0.05  AFPM Lost Time Incident Rate  0.10  0.09  0.08  0.08  0.08e  TRR* BY INDUSTRY Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2017; Phillps 66 data, 2018 5 4 All industries including private, state and local government 3 2 1 0.14 0 Hospitals Grocery Manufacturing Construction Electric power Professional Petrochemical Petroleum Phillips 66 Stores (overall) generation, and business manufacturing refineries transmission services and distribution *TRR is a standardized OSHA personal safety metric and represents the number of OSHA-defined incidents per every 200,000 hours worked (equivalent to 100 workers who each work 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year). e = estimate PROCESS SAFETY Another critically important effort involves evaluating the procedures used to monitor and measure Process Safety Events (PSE), which are unplanned or uncontrolled releases of a hazardous material. We work to reduce the number of PSEs by applying best practices in design, engineering, operating and maintenance. Our employees perform hazard analyses and use change management procedures to mitigate risk. We also audit our safety, mechanical integrity, operating and maintenance programs. We investigate serious incidents and near misses in order to develop corrective actions and utilize training procedures to ensure employees and contractors are aware of hazards and how to address and mitigate them. Tier 1 and 2 PSEs are defined by the American Petroleum Institute (API) Recommended Practice 754 (RP-754). Tier 1 PSEs are the most significant type of unplanned or uncontrolled release of material from primary containment. Each Tier 1 event is investigated to determine the underlying causes so we can act to prevent recurrences. In 2018, Refining’s Tier 1 process safety event rate of 0.02 was industry leading and down 75% over the last five years. Tier 2 events have a lesser consequence than Tier 1 events, and are still an important metric. Our goal is zero process safety events. From 2017 to 2018, our Refining business unit achieved an 80% reduction of energy isolation related Tier 1 and Tier 2 PSEs. This program will be expanded to Midstream in 2019. Our companywide PSE Tier 1 and Tier 2 rates were better than the refining industry average rate. Below are metrics for both. PROCESS SAFETY (incidents per 200,000 work-hours)  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  Phillips 66 Tier 1 Process Safety Event rate  0.07  0.08  0.02  0.03  0.05  Phillips 66 Tier 2 Process Safety Event rate  0.18  0.13  0.13  0.13  0.13  FOCUS ON PROCESS SAFETY Process safety is about preventing loss of containment of hazardous materials in order to avoid harm to people and the environment. We recognize the need to be proactive and continuously improve. Accordingly, we have identified these focus areas: • Leveraging process hazard assessment best practices across the company, with added emphasis on safeguards to prevent the highest consequence events. • Reducing the number of events caused by imprecise execution of tasks. • Improving our learning efficiency and effectiveness. Our active participation in trade associations and benchmarking groups also helps us identify opportunities for our business, while advancing overall industry performance. AN EMPHASIS ON ENERGY ISOLATION We have realized marked improvements in Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events in Refining since 2015. Part of that improvement can be attributed to the renewed focus on energy isolation protocols, or the “Lock, Tag, Try” system of ensuring that machinery is shut down and can’t be restarted during maintenance or servicing. In 2016, a team analyzed all the serious incidents from the previous four years, including the near misses. The study showed insufficient energy isolation was a leading cause of PSEs and other serious incidents. In response, we created a prescriptive energy isolation standard designed to have multiple layers of protection to minimize the potential for unexpected release of energy. This new standard was embedded at all levels of the business, and HSE management made site visits to verify compliance. As a result, energy isolation related Tier 1 and 2 process safety events decreased approximately 85%. OSHA’S VOLUNTARY PROTECTION PROGRAM Across our Refining, Midstream and Lubricants businesses, 28 facilities have achieved OSHA Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) recognition. VPP STAR status recognizes effective safety and health management systems, visible and committed safety leadership, and employee involvement to prevent injury and illness. HSE PERFORMANCE Phillips 66’s progress in HSE performance is evident in our recordable rates, number of process safety events and reduction in environmental events. It is our goal that everyone who works at, or visits, our facilities goes home safely every day. Performance is the outcome of relentless focus on details and our programs such as the 10 Life Saving Rules, audits focused on mechanical integrity, and continued training on leadership skills in our business units. We perform focused audits on major work activities such as energy isolation, startup/shutdown activities, valves in proper position to prevent releases, procedure clarification and human performance tools. We also know that work to zero incidents is continuous. We work 24/7/365 and our work can be complex. We also require business units to complete an annual report on risks. It includes a list of risks and corrective actions, risks identified and closed during the year, and a separate explanation of all risks that have been open five years or longer. Business unit managers verify compliance with company risk management requirements. The reports are reviewed and signed off by each subsequent level of management. Ultimately, a complete report is developed containing the status of the risk items throughout the company and is reviewed with the CEO and summarized to the Public Policy Committee. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT To ensure continuous safety improvement, we invest in training and audits. Each site holds a monthly safety committee meeting during which employees, managers and union representatives review goals, safety practices and audit results, and work together to keep an open dialogue focused on continuous improvement. It is an important forum to discuss key safety topics such as the 10 Life Saving Rules program and continuing education opportunities, and to obtain specialized knowledge from experts such as industrial hygienists and OSHA representatives. We hold more frequent meetings within our field staff groups and perform job safety analyses for each field job. We hold large-scale company training summits every two years; the latest training was in 2018. We gather people from every health and safety committee in the company to share best practices, goals and performance milestones. We learn from each other, gain new techniques and skills, and take that learning back to our home facilities, where we can implement improvements. The summits have also been a great way for union leaders and Phillips 66 management to maintain open dialogue and speak with a unified voice about safety. We also hold periodic contractor safety summits in which all our major contracting companies come together with us to set expectations and goals, share best practices and keep lines of communication open. The next contractor safety summit is planned for fall 2019. ‘SHIELD YOUR FUTURE’ TRAINING MODULES In 2019, Phillips 66 Refining launched the “Shield Your Future” training series. Led by Phillips 66 HSE ambassadors, small groups of employees go through real life incident case studies, discuss them and brainstorm what could have been done differently. This helps everyone further understand our safety culture and expectations. It also encourages everyone to take time to assess situations and exercise their stop work authority when needed. CAUSE-EFFECT MAPPING In 2017, we launched a companywide initiative to improve learning from incident investigations. We trained more than 1,000 employees in cause effect mapping methodology, which quickly became a universal problem solving tool for actual and potential quality, reliability, environmental and asset integrity improvement opportunities. Cause effect mapping also helps increase our learning effectiveness across business units. More recently, cause effect mapping provided a natural transition into process mapping. Proactively using process mapping helps us identify and reduce error likely situations often found in normal work. This simple, intuitive method engages employees and is the foundation for driving continuous improvements in personal safety, process safety and reliability. Lake Charles Refinery Each business unit establishes and maintains auditing processes to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of HSE controls and compliance with legal requirements and standards of operation. Joint ventures, partnerships and contractors are included in the auditing process. Audit programs are documented and include a process for communicating results to management and provisions for periodic review and corrective actions. Our performance is verified through our own exacting assurance processes, as well as those of third parties. Our facilities are subject to rigorous inspections and our operations are actively managed to ensure continued asset integrity. As part of our company’s corporate HSE audit program, we conduct in-depth operating excellence audits at each of our refineries to evaluate adherence to our assurance processes. There are hundreds of audits done each year across our assets, including site inspections, corporate audits at least once every three years, refinery operating excellence audits and trade association and third-party safety audits. The results are reported to business leaders. We are also involved in numerous industry-improvement and standard-setting committees of American Petroleum Institute (API), AFPM and the Association of Oil Pipe Lines. Our facilities follow industry-leading quality management systems, and many are certified to international standards. These multi-faceted and holistic company and industry efforts ensure that our complex operations remain leaders in safety among the U.S. economic sectors. Through our occupational health and industrial hygiene program, we evaluate our workplaces for health hazards to ensure that we protect everyone at our facilities. Employees and contractors report both actual incidents and near misses that have or could have resulted in injury, property damage or environmental impact. We learn from these situations, identifying and removing the root causes to reduce the risk of recurrence. JET SETS RECORDS Our Continental Business Unit has dramatically improved its safety performance from a 2014 TRR of 0.14 with three incidents, to the 2018 TRR of 0.05 with one incident. Our JET fuel stations in Austria achieved five consecutive years without a recordable incident and 35 years without an employee injury. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS While we strive to eliminate incidents, we are prepared to respond to emergencies, and work with local, state and federal agencies. Our Emergency Response Management System provides a model for building and maintaining crisis management and emergency response plans. Each facility has a written emergency response plan in place that includes a process for identifying potential emergency situations and planning for mitigation and control. Employees are trained for their responsibilities and assignments under each plan. Drills are conducted frequently and critiqued so plans can be adjusted as needed. Emergency response plans and documents are fully reviewed each year. At the corporate level, the company maintains a Crisis Management Plan with personnel in place to provide prompt and effective support to supplement actions taken in response to an emergency. The company also utilizes Regional Response Teams to support businesses during major emergencies. In our annual emergency response drills, we use realistic scenarios to ensure that both our Emergency Response Organization and the community around our facilities are prepared to respond to emergencies. Participation by local and corporate leaders ensures high standards for training and competence for our on-site first responders. Our teams of first responders protect people’s lives and secure the area in an emergency. We invest in training, sending emergency responders to train at premier institutions such as 350 the Fire Service Institute at the University of Illinois and the Emergency Services Training Institute at Texas A&M University. EXERCISES AND We extend this specialized training beyond our own first EMERGENCY responders, covering the costs for firefighters based near our RESPONSE DRILLS refineries so they can train alongside our teams. Doing this better serves the communities where we operate. In 2018, we conducted a total of 350 exercises and emergency response drills based on real-life scenarios across our midstream 244 operations. These include 244 qualified individual/incident QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL/ commander notification drills, 45 equipment deployment INCIDENT COMMANDER exercises and 61 “table top” exercises to discuss simulated emergency situations. Each of our business units also completes NOTIFICATION DRILLS multiple notification accountability drills for emergencies and one table top exercise every year. If there’s ever an interruption of operations, we have written business continuity plans to quickly resume manufacturing and 45 transporting energy products to markets around the world. EQUIPMENT DEPLOYMENT EXERCISES COMMUNITY SAFETY AND PREPAREDNESS DONATIONS Our core safety value means we are also committed to working together to help protect communities. We believe that preparation and emergency management systems are crucial to people’s safety and security. We support community safety and preparedness programs and proactively support local police, fire and emergency management personnel to bolster community safety departments. Building local capacity for resilience and preparedness is part of our commitment to our values, human rights, environmental protection and rapid response. To this end, we support every community where we have facilities with equipment, experience or other resources. Our total donations in 2018 exceeded $2 million. Here are a few highlights:  In Louisiana, the ALLIANCE REFINERY donated money for several projects, including annual sponsorship of the Plaquemines Parish Government’s “Reverse 911 System.” This system allows the Plaquemines Parish Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness to immediately notify the public during a crisis. The refinery also contributed to the Plaquemines Parish Government and School Board for radios, and to the Plaquemines Parish Sheriff’s Office for emergency response equipment and a drone. BAYWAY REFINERY in New Jersey donated money to the Union County Fire Chiefs Association for the purchase of fire training equipment and covered the cost to send eight firefighters to our corporate and fire school at Texas A&M University. The refinery also gave the Trinitas Regional Medical Center funds for a high-tech specialty ambulance. FERNDALE REFINERY in Washington donated to many causes including giving to the Whatcom County Specialized Emergency Response Program for equipment upgrades, the Whatcom Fire District 17 for response boat communication equipment and the Island Oil Spill Association to cover operating expenses for spill response preparations. Our MIDSTREAM facilities donated funds to support the City of Cushing, Oklahoma’s purchase of a new 2018 Pierce Freightliner Industrial Pumper, provided funding for the Mountrail County, North Dakota, Disaster and Emergency Services to buy a community siren warning system, and contributed to the River Road Fire Department to enable the department to replace a tanker/pumper truck. Our PONCA CITY REFINERY in Oklahoma donated to the Ponca City Fire Department to update portable ventilators for ambulances and gave volunteer time and monetary grants to the Fire Safety Council to fund Fire Safety Trainings, among other donations. The SAN FRANCISCO REFINERY in California provided funds to the Crockett Carquinez Fire Protection District for equipment, replacement of 12 automated external defibrillators and the cost of wages for two trainers. The refinery also supplies the Rodeo-Hercules Fire District with fuel for its entire fleet. Emergency vehicles enter the refinery to get fuel from our in-house pump station. Our WOOD RIVER REFINERY in Illinois helped nearby communities with numerous donations, including one to the Wood River Police Department for the computer and mobile electronic evidence program, sponsoring the Roxana Police Department’s DARE program and contributing to the Village of Bethalto’s purchase of ballistic helmets and surveillance equipment for the Bethalto Police Department. Tank fire training, Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service COMMUNITY SAFETY AND PREPAREDNESS DONATIONS (CONT.) TRAINING AND TRAINING EQUIPMENT • Billings Fire Department, Montana • Billings Police Department, Montana • Brazoria County Fire Fighters Association, Texas • Houston Police Foundation, Texas • Memorial Hermann Foundation, Texas • Oklahoma State University, Oklahoma • Union County Fire Chiefs Association, New Jersey VEHICLES • Brazoria Police Department, Texas • Kinney County Fire & Rescue, Texas • Rankin Volunteer Fire Department, Texas • River Road Fire Department, New Jersey • Safety Alliance of Cushing, Oklahoma • Trinitas Health Foundation, New Jersey FUEL AND SUPPLIES • Copan Fire Department, Oklahoma • Houston Police Foundation, Texas • Ochelata Fire Department, Oklahoma • Oglesby Fire Department, Oklahoma • Osage Hills Fire Department, Oklahoma • Ramona Fire Department, California • Washington County Fire Department, Oklahoma SAFETY, COMMUNICATIONS AND MEDICAL EQUIPMENT • Alvin Independent School District, Texas • Broadwater County Disaster & Emergency Services, Montana • City Of Billings Fire Department, Montana • Crane Police Department, Texas • Crane Sheriff’s Department, Texas • Crockett-Carquinez Fire Department, California • Kay County Sheriff’s Department, Oklahoma • Kermit Volunteer Fire Department, Texas • Mountrail County Disaster And Emergency Services, North Dakota • Plaquemines Parish Sheriff’s Office, Louisiana • Ponca City Fire Department, Oklahoma • Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Service (RACES), Sedgwick County, Kansas • Specialized Emergency Response Program (Whatcom County), Washington • Three Rivers Volunteer Fire Department, Texas • Washington County Emergency Management, Oklahoma • Washington County Sheriff’s Department, Oklahoma • Wink Volunteer Fire Department, Texas • Winkler County Emergency Management Office, Texas • Winkler County EMS, Texas • Winkler County Sheriff’s Office, Texas COMMUNITY HEALTH AND SAFETY INITIATIVES • American Red Cross, National • Attucks Community Center, Oklahoma • Big Brothers Big Sisters Lone Star, Texas • Calcasieu Area Council - Boy Scouts of America, Louisiana • Crime Stoppers of Houston, Texas • East Bay Regional Park, California • Los Angeles Metropolitan YMCA (YMCA of Wilmington), California • Memorial Hermann Foundation, Texas • Oasis, A Safe Haven, Louisiana • San Luis Obispo Regional Transit Authority, California • Truckers Against Trafficking, National • United States Coast Guard Foundation, National • YMCA of Greater New Orleans (Belle Chasse), Louisiana GRAY OAK PIPELINE: GROWTH, PREPAREDNESS, ENGAGEMENT The Gray Oak Pipeline is a strategic growth project. Phillips 66 is constructing the 850 mile pipeline to link production from the Permian Basin in West Texas to manufacturing and other facilities on the Texas Gulf Coast. The Gray Oak project reflects Phillips 66 s purpose, values and culture in practice. From the early stages of the planning process, we ve worked with key agencies to ensure the Gray Oak Pipeline project complies with all applicable regulations and laws, including the Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act, National Historic Preservation Act and others. To make this happen, we coordinated and engaged with many agencies, such as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Texas Railroad Commission, Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, Texas Historical Commission Division of Historic Preservation and Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. The planned route was carefully chosen to minimize the impact on the environment, wildlife and cultural resources, including the use of existing pipeline routes and the avoidance of sensitive areas. We collaborated with Angelo State University to translocate the Tobusch Fishhook Cactus to ensure conservation of native habitats. This included a five year research donation. In order to preserve the natural habitat of the native golden cheeked warbler, we rerouted a portion of the pipeline. Early engagement with local elected leaders along the route identified a desire and need to enhance local emergency preparedness. Phillips 66 responded with numerous donations of equipment to local emergency response teams. It is part of our commitment to uniting with the community to ensure our operations are safe and reliable, and that we have proper emergency response plans and resources in place should something go wrong. It has been our pleasure to work with local fire and sheriff s departments and other community organizations to make sure that we get it right when it comes to paving the way for new assets like the Gray Oak Pipeline. Gray Oak Pipeline 