CHAPTER 4 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Our corporate strategy depends on the talents of our high-performing organization. We are powered by our commitment to building skills, pursuing excellence and finding better solutions through our diverse backgrounds. We actively seek to promote employee well-being through sound policies and programs. As outlined earlier in the Governance chapter, we are in the midst of a multiyear program to define and strengthen our culture. We work hard to maintain a deep sense of engagement, responsibility, respect and community among our employees and contractors. ATTRACTING AND RETAINING THE BEST PEOPLE Phillips 66 offers competitive jobs and provides varied development opportunities for our people to learn and grow. We are proud of the competitive benefits packages, health savings accounts, life and income protection and retirement planning support we provide for our employees. New U.S. employees, for example, are automatically enrolled into a company savings plan that the company matches dollar for dollar, up to a certain percentage of pay. In 2018, the median annual total compensation was more than $196,000 including salary and company benefits. Houston Headquarters Our bonus program is based on company performance, business unit performance and individual performance. In addition to our safety and environmental performance, the program criteria are used to evaluate steps to advance key human capital metrics such as retention, development, diversity in hiring, corporate culture, capability and performance. We undertake annual benchmarking to ensure that our total compensation and benefits package and bonus programs remain competitive. We have formal special recognition programs to acknowledge exemplary performance or actions. We also have lifelong learning and wellness programs. If our employees need help, we have an employee assistance program that provides confidential counseling and other services. Many of our facilities have on-site health clinics, and we offer fitness facilities in some locations. INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY   Our company values inclusion and diversity – concepts that are interdependent and equally important. They are essential to who we are, what we believe, and how we do business. Inclusion means we value, respect and support one another. When we talk about diversity, we mean that we respect the characteristics or dimensions that differentiate us from one another. We are guided by our: • Policies, procedures and programs that promote equality. • Diversity efforts that are driven by leaders across the organization. • Employees who are each responsible for promoting an inclusive and diverse workplace. Women hold 21% of the jobs in our international workforce, 27% of professional roles and 20% of the jobs in supervisory leadership roles. We are powered by our commitment to building skills, pursuing excellence and finding better ideas from our multitude of diverse backgrounds. Phillips 66 Partners Oklahoma City Terminal We are committed to high-level performance that can only be achieved through a culture that values people with a range of experiences, perspectives and knowledge. For this reason, at Phillips 66, we lead with inclusion because without it, diversity cannot thrive. Our definition of diversity includes factors such as race, gender and ethnicity, along with things like diversity of thought, experience and opinions. We are proactive in fostering a culture of inclusion, incorporating inclusive behaviors in our management development curriculum and through “Our Energy in Action” behavioral expectations of all employees. Inclusion is how we engage with each other and the value we place on the unique experiences, perspectives, and backgrounds that our diverse employees represent. We want employees to feel that they belong, and that their voices are heard. This results in more creative ideas and solutions, better decisions based on broader perspectives, and ultimately, better results for all our stakeholders. To this end, we offer two hallmark inclusion and diversity training programs: “Insights” and “Unconscious Bias.” INCLUSIVE BENEFITS AT A GLANCE • Phillips 66 offers benefits to eligible • The 19/30 program allows employees to employees and their children, spouses, take one personal day off each month by domestic partners and children of extending each workday that month by domestic partners. 30 minutes. continuous Phillips 66 service. work may be eligible for disability leave after vacation and Short Term Disability benefits are exhausted. leave for active service in the military. that require extended time off; using such leave won’t cause a break in an employee s • Employees may be entitled to paid or unpaid • Unpaid personal leave is available for matters • New parents, mothers and fathers, are • Phillips 66 provides employees with cash eligible for up to two weeks of paid time off assistance or loans if they are displaced from at 100% of pay for care and bonding under their house or suffer personal loss following a our Parental Leave Policy. natural disaster. • Sick or injured employees who are unable to • The company helps with adoption expenses, • We have policies that allow paid time off including agency fees, placement fees, legal to care for a family member with a serious fees, court costs and other expenses. EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are designed to be forums for sharing ideas and raising awareness around identity and belonging. Our eight ERGs have 49 chapters throughout the company. We re proud that 44% of our employees participate in an ERG. While these groups develop organically according to need and request, they focus in general on recruitment, professional development and community participation. Phillips 66 s ERGs are the Black Employee Network, the Hispanic Network, the Women s Network, the Asian American Network, the Native American Network, the New Hire Network, Pride66, which is our LGBTQ network, and the Veterans Network. In addition, employees also form special interest clubs around hobbies or volunteer interests. The ERGs meet many times a year, offering panels, discussions and other activities to all employees. Some changes we made to the ERG structure in 2018 led to a global approach to managing our ERGs to increase leadership engagement and support, streamline responsibilities and increase strategic alignment among locations. Each ERG now has a local sponsor and a local leader, along with global executive leaders. In 2018, we established an Executive Inclusion and Diversity Council chaired by our Chairman and CEO, Greg Garland. Membership is comprised of the Executive Leadership Team and other senior business leaders. The council is charged with shaping our direction, bringing focus to, and prioritizing, our investments in inclusion and diversity. The council is a reflection of our efforts to drive an organizational mindset that everyone has a role to play in creating an inclusive workplace where diversity, in all its forms, can thrive. Here is a video showing how our employees define inclusion and diversity at Phillips 66. LABOR A critical part of our workforce is our employees who are union members. Thirty percent of our employees belong to a union. This is an extraordinary rate in comparison to the national average of 10.5% and private-sector average of 6.4%. We are pleased with the diversity of unions representing our employees, including United Steel Workers, Teamsters, Building and Trades, and Service Workers. Union members work in all of our business units, with the majority at our refineries. We are committed to employees’ rights to bargain collectively and are committed to negotiating agreements that enable each business unit to compete in an increasingly challenging global market, while providing a safe workplace and a competitive compensation and benefits package to our employees. GENERATIONAL MIX Phillips 66 is generationally diverse. Of the employees in our global workforce, 40% are considered Millennials or Generation Z. Attracting new workers and maintaining a pipeline of talent through compensation, training, development and networking opportunities sets us in strong stead for the future of our company and industry. At the same time, our organization enjoys a deep sense of shared purpose and community; almost half of our workforce has more than 10 years of service and about one-third have been with us for more than 15 years. As a result of a multiyear program to hire military veterans, we have been able to attract, retain and support veterans in our workforce; we’re proud that veterans account for 7% of our workforce, and 15% of our new hires in 2018. Military Times “Best for Vets: Employers” included us in its 2019 rankings because of our broad commitment to workforce inclusion and diversity. We look for opportunities to continually improve at every level of our organization. In 2018, we also received a Forbes “America’s Best Employer” award, which is earned based on employee opinions. We were also named a “Top Employer for Diversity” by the Texas Diversity Council. BRINGING OUR ENERGY INTO THE COMMUNITY We encourage our employees to volunteer for causes that matter to them and make a difference in our communities. One example is from our Ferndale Refinery Women s Network and Ferndale Futures group, whose members volunteered for the Opportunity Council s Chore Program, helping a senior citizen by doing yard clean up and maintenance projects. The project not only helped a member of the community, but the team s efforts earned a $1,000 donation to the Opportunity Council from our Phillips 66 Volunteer Grants Program. Another example happened at Thanksgiving when employees from our Lake Charles Refinery teamed up with the Calcasieu Council on Aging to deliver food to 350 elderly people who were on the waiting list for the Meals on Wheels program. Each person received a bag with corn, peas, cornbread mix, yams, chicken broth, rolls, pies, rice and a chicken. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT We provide regular opportunities for employees to develop expertise, experience, communication and team building skills. Our performance management process identifies coaching and training needs. Talent Management Teams offer employees structured input on job moves and career development. About 25% of employees moved into new roles in 2018, an increase from our historic average of 20%. In addition to annual performance reviews, all employees have at least one development review each year with their direct supervisors. EMPLOYEE OPINION SURVEY We conduct biannual confidential employee engagement surveys to gather opinions of the people who work for us. Results are available to all employees and the board of directors. Management analyzes findings to identify progress on previous recommendations and areas of continued opportunity. Accountability for follow up sits with the executive leadership team and every “people leader.” Results are communicated through the organization via CEO communications, business unit town halls and team meetings. The 2018 survey had a 74% response rate, and showed favorable scores in areas related to corporate values and perceptions of how employees’ contributions are valued. We saw significant improvement in sentiment around manager effectiveness, which reflects our 2018 focus on providing effective coaching, feedback, recognition, goal alignment and setting clear expectations. In lower-scoring areas, we are taking appropriate action. We keep our employees updated on progress so they continue to feel valued and heard. INTERNSHIPS We provide paid internships at every major U.S. job location, offering students opportunities to learn and play a role in the organization’s success. In 2018, we had the highest ever percentage of female interns (48%) and the highest percentage of women joining our engineering program. Our percentage of female new hires rose to 39%. Our intern minority representation rose to 31%. On average, 90% of our interns are offered positions after they earn their degrees, and a similar percentage from the 2018 intern class accepted the offers. CAREER GROWTH Here are some of the many opportunities employees have for career growth. • New hire onboarding for all employees includes education on our company values and culture. • Lunch and Learn” sessions, open to all employees, are offered on a variety of topics. • Our “Leading the Vision” and Leading for Success” programs offer continuous coaching for supervisors. • Peer-to peer teaching and learning takes place on topics such as resilience and change management. • Crucial Conversations” training is offered for communication skills development. • Our commercial organization s Katalyst training increases employee knowledge of operations, supply and the value chain. • Employees have access to online learning and professional development through LinkedIn Learning. • We also offer specialized training for employees in engineering and finance. Beaumont Terminal Control Center STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We value our stakeholder relationships, which enable us to fulfill our purpose and to execute our strategy. Our stakeholders include employees, shareholders, investors, customers, communities where we operate, indigenous people, legislators and energy consumers. We are leaders when it comes to in-person engagements with our socially responsible shareholders, with whom we meet regularly to discuss sustainability issues. We continue to strengthen our stakeholder engagement across all key groups. Throughout Phillips 66, our processes provide a measured and responsive approach to stakeholder engagement and our community call-in lines offer anonymity. If a community concern is raised, we respond. The concern is directed to those who can take action and, when needed, escalated to the relevant business unit leader or refinery management. Corporate senior leadership is regularly briefed on any community feedback, and we respond as appropriate and take strategic action when needed. The board Public Policy Committee is updated with feedback from stakeholder engagement as part of its global reputation charter. We collect data on an ongoing basis from a range of sources such as in-person interviews, surveys, community meetings, insights from the many charitable organizations that we support, and feedback via social media. We also conduct sector benchmarking and seek wider policy and political perspectives, routinely acquiring information from our shareholders; service companies, consultants, industry bodies, research firms and analyst reports; government databases; environmental and social non-governmental organizations (NGO); global policy bodies; sustainability raters, rating agencies and indices; and private-sector providers. Our efforts to collect ideas and data on these topics, and to share feedback and best practices are central to our planning and sustainability. We also systematically assess, measure, manage and mitigate environmental, social and governance risks associated with our activities and strategic plans, and we are responsive to external suggestions and input. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND EDUCATION The communities in which Phillips 66’s assets are located are critical stakeholders. We consistently and regularly engage with our local and indigenous communities and seek their feedback. Below are 24-hour community hotlines for each of our refineries. COMMUNITY ADVISORY PANELS Our refining operations have well-established Community Advisory Councils or Panels (CAC/CAPs) that represent a cooperative and empowering environment for collaboration in the community. CACs and CAPs include both company representatives and community members, who meet at least quarterly with refinery leadership teams to provide feedback on performance, discuss topics of local concern and share insights on plans and activities. CAPs keep open communication channels for safety, feedback and grievances, including named and openly contactable leaders. Many refineries also have a 24-hour community awareness hotline. We are also responding to requests from our stakeholders to expand our social media activities related to our business units. Our pipeline business units have year-round community awareness, education and listening panels to stay in touch with those involved with and affected by our extensive pipeline network. Call 811 before you dig! ALL ABOUT PIPELINES Because Phillips 66 manages approximately 21,000 miles of pipeline systems, we have a responsibility to the more than 1.5 million people who live and work nearby. U.S. government and oil industry statistics show that the most common cause of pipeline incidents is improper or unauthorized digging. If someone puts a shovel or heavy machinery in the ground without knowing there’s a pipeline buried beneath, they can cause serious damage. This is why our pipeline operations business maintains an 811 call center for safe digging. The call center has handled more than a million calls, and we seek feedback and maintain many avenues for communication – a website for community education, toll free numbers for questions or concerns, and an email portal. Phillips 66 also offers special education programs for farmers, ranchers and public officials. We work closely with schools near our pipelines. This effort focuses on three coordinated activities: teaching districts how to develop safety processes and consider pipeline locations in their planning, providing related science based curriculum materials for educators, and collaborating with parent teacher organizations that share information through their networks. In the broader community, project updates and hazard or safety reminders are disseminated through involvement with local emergency planning committees, via door to door walks and formal correspondence, email and media campaigns, and community forums. We are proud to meet or exceed regulatory requirements and industry best practices for informing the public about our operations. Our public awareness programs have been benchmarked as top of industry. SOCIAL RISK ASSESSMENT We adhere to local and national laws and regulations regarding requirements for environmental, social and health assessments prior to starting operations at a new site, including pipelines. For new projects, we conduct a social risk assessment to understand the people and concerns along a proposed route. We provide up-to-date information to stakeholder communities about potential impacts and environmental, health and safety aspects of our work. Much of this information is available on our public website. We regularly update and disseminate information through press releases, our website, social media and, in some cases, door-to-door flyer distribution. We also hold public consultations at which we encourage dialogue and welcome feedback from our stakeholders. HUMAN RIGHTS We approach our stakeholder engagement from a position of mutual respect, respecting human rights, demonstrating our values through our actions and being a good neighbor. We conduct our operations in compliance with all applicable laws, in accordance with our company values and policies, and consistent with the spirit of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. An example that brings our human rights position to life is our relationship with the Lummi Nation, a Native American tribe and a neighbor to our Washington state facility. Members of the Nation are part of our Community Advisory Panel, an established community engagement program. For many years, we have been invited to participate in the Nation’s First Salmon Ceremony, which our leadership team is honored to join. In 2018, work began on a new totem pole that will highlight the entrance to our facility. We support the Lummi Nation’s education priorities, such as the Lummi Northwest Indian College and Boys and Girls Club education center, and we participate in many Nation activities and programs. Ceremonial blanket given to Phillips 66 by the Lummi Nation Another example is the inclusive and diverse workforce we foster. In 2018, we participated in the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index. This survey represents the national benchmarking tool on corporate policies and practices relating to LGBTQ employees. We scored 85 out of 100, up 15 points from 2017. SUPPLY CHAIN Our procurement policy governs our supply chain. We have a formal program to vet suppliers for safety, quality and financial assurance. Understanding and monitoring the work conducted by our diverse suppliers and business partners is integral to efficient and robust business operations, sustainability and respect for human rights. As explained in our Governance chapter, suppliers and partners are expected to comply with contractual regulations and the principles of conduct set out in the Business Partner Principles of Conduct. We audit suppliers’ manufacturing facilities, critical suppliers and contracts within our supply chain to ensure adherence to policy. In complying with laws where we do business, Phillips 66 supply chain standards meet minimum wage, child labor, right to associate or bargain collectively, and working hours laws. It should go without saying, but we don’t use corporal punishment. Where we provide housing for our employees, we ensure living conditions are safe and sanitary. Our suppliers are expected to certify that the materials incorporated into products manufactured for Phillips 66 comply with all laws, including those pertaining to human rights, anti-slavery and anti-human trafficking. The products manufactured in our refineries and developed along the supply chain significantly contribute to strengthening the economies in our communities, and we intend to maintain this position. In all our operations, Phillips 66 seeks to partner with diverse businesses and is committed to providing equal and impartial opportunities. This approach stimulates local economic development and enhances our long-term business performance by improving supplier responsiveness, competition and sustainability. Our supplier diversity initiative facilitates active participation in organizations that support the development of diverse businesses in the United States. We are corporate members of the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council. TRUCKERS AGAINST TRAFFICKING In 2018, we became a Platinum Level Sponsor of Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT), a 501(c)(3) organization that “exists to educate, equip, empower and mobilize members of the trucking and busing industries to combat human trafficking. TAT partners with law enforcement and helps the hundreds of thousands of members of the trucking industry recognize and report instances of human trafficking. The group works with trucking schools, carriers, the truck stop industry, manufacturers and state and national trucking associations. TAT training has saved victims and helped catch criminals because truckers and others in the trucking industry now know to call the National Human Trafficking Resource Center (NHTRC) at 1 888 3737 888 and report anything that seems suspicious. Since TAT training began, calls to the NHTRC have increased dramatically, and hundreds of cases of likely human trafficking have been identified. CUSTOMERS Our customers distribute the products we make to consumers and businesses. We supply petroleum products to wholesale distributors who deliver them to more than 7,500 Phillips 66®, Conoco® and 76® branded fuel stations in the United States and Mexico. In Europe, we supply more than 1,600 JET® sites and a joint venture in the Coop brand. In addition, we also supply branded lubricants at various retail outlets across the United States. We also provide businesses with chemicals and solvents, premium coke and other specialty products. We maintain open channels of communication to serve these customers with a range of quality products. Digitalization of the Consumer Experience In building on our loyalty and customer experience programs, our U.S. Marketing team brought a revolutionary consumer-focused payment technology to our Phillips 66®, Conoco® and 76® fuel brands. Industry experts predict 20% of all transactions will happen via mobile devices in the next five years, so digitalization of the customer experience is a growing need. In response, we took the lead in 2018, offering secure, fast and convenient mobile payment through our consumer apps. The digital apps work at more than 5,000 of our stations across the country. Based on consumer feedback, we are continuing updates and enhancements to the mobile pay program in 2019. We are also improving the fuel stations to meet customer expectations for well-lit, safe and easy-to.access locations. In 2018, we upgraded 1,300 fuel stations through a reimaging effort. We’re on track to upgrade 1,800 more in 2019. Facilities and technology improvements are a significant investment in security, physical and digital, consistent with our company values and strategy. JET GAS STATIONS GET RESOURCE.FRIENDLY Resource friendly actions have helped our JET® stations across Europe improve their environmental footprint and provide better consumer service. These simple, but impactful actions include: • New gas station design that includes energy-saving LED lights. • New seals and doors on store refrigerators to reduce cooling related energy consumption. • Addition of water processing to car wash facilities to reduce use of fresh water. • New climate controls that heat and cool fuel station buildings more efficiently. INVESTORS AND BANKS We proactively engage with many of our banks and investors to update them on our progress and discuss items of interest or concern to them, and to learn about topics of interest to their stakeholders. Regular communication enables these stakeholder groups to fulfill commitments related to Principles for Responsible Investments, a voluntary set of investment principles related to the integration of sustainability issues in investment decision-making processes. TRADE ASSOCIATIONS We participate in industry trade associations to share technical and standards expertise, share lessons learned from incident investigations, develop best practices and be part of important public education efforts regarding major issues of common concern to our industry. Our participation in trade and industry associations is subject to management oversight by our Governmental Affairs team, which approves our memberships and serves as the principal representative in such associations. Phillips 66 pays regular membership dues to several trade associations, some of which use a portion of the dues for nondeductible state and federal lobbying and political expenditures. In accordance with the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, those trade associations provide us with the portion of our annual dues that is attributable to lobbying expenses. We disclose these contributions in our Political Giving and Activity Policy. In addition to being active members in local chambers of commerce and civic organizations where our operating assets are located, the company is a member of many industry trade organizations. A listing of key organizations can also be found in our Political Giving and Activity Policy. Los Angeles Refinery PAC66 In accordance with federal and state law and board and company policies, Phillips 66 does not make direct corporate contributions to candidates or political committees supporting candidates in federal or state elections. Employees can support candidates for office through the Phillips 66 employee Political Action Committee (PAC66). PAC66 is funded exclusively through voluntary contributions from eligible employees and members of the board of directors. It is registered with the Federal Election Commission, and contributions are fully reported monthly. Employees participating in PAC66 are not reimbursed, directly or indirectly, for political contributions or expenses. PAC66 has its own board of directors, which is composed of a broad cross-section of company employees. The board approves all PAC66 disbursements, which are made solely in the best interest of the company and its shareholders, and not according to the personal agendas of individual directors, officers or employees. PAC66 contributes to federal and state political candidates who support responsible energy industry activities and other business issues of interest to the company. MEDIA Media coverage about our company is another way we learn what is top-of-mind to our communities. It’s a way to let community members know what’s going on, from philanthropic and community events that we sponsor, to biodiversity efforts and business development. We are committed to maintaining our local, national and trade media relationships as part of our commitment to communicating and maintaining transparency with our various stakeholders. We are responsive to inquiries and proactively share information with news outlets. In the event of an incident, we ensure that community information is available within an hour of an incident. COMMUNITY INVESTMENT AND CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY One way we move our company strategy forward is by promoting economic, social and environmental advancement in the communities where we live and work. In short, we work toward a sustainable workforce and sustainable neighborhoods. The strategy for our corporate philanthropy program is based on four core pillars: Education and Literacy, Environment and Sustainability, Community Safety and Preparedness and Civic Enrichment. We encourage our employees to volunteer their time to causes that are important to them. 2018 was a record year for our volunteer program. Phillips 66 employees spent 78,000 hours volunteering to teach science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) and work at literacy summer camps, building homes with Habitat for Humanity, assembling equipment for local fire departments, planting trees at local schools, doing household chores for people who aren’t physically able, picking up trash along roads and beaches and much more. Our regular full- and part-time employees are entitled to take two paid days per year to volunteer with initiatives and organizations that hold significance for them. Union employees are eligible for the benefit as well when it is part of their collective bargaining agreement. Phillips 66 also donates $500 for every 20 hours an employee or spouse volunteers with an eligible 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. Teams of four or more employees, retirees or spouse volunteers may apply for a team volunteer grant of $1,000. We encourage personal philanthropy by matching employee donations to eligible 501(c)(3) non-profit organizations dollar-for-dollar, up to $15,000 per year. Retiree donations are matched dollar-for-dollar up to $7,500 a year. OUR PHILANTHROPIC FOCUS In 2018, Phillips 66 contributed $27 million to organizations promoting education and literacy, environmental sustainability, safety and preparedness and civic enrichment. As part of our volunteer grants program and matching gifts to 2,030 organizations, Phillips 66 donated: $6.6MM TO 853 ORGANIZATIONS $625M IN DISASTER RELIEF FUNDING 62 NEW DEPENDENT SCHOLARSHIPS, WHICH BROUGHT THE TOTAL NUMBER OF RECIPIENTS TO 227 LET’S HAVE CLASS OUTSIDE We believe that providing real life learning opportunities to K 12 students instills a love of learning and an inquisitiveness that can develop into cutting edge thinking. Our aquaponics center and associated conservation curriculum in Dewey, Oklahoma, is one example of this. The outdoor classroom was completed in 2018, giving students the opportunity to enhance their study of ecosystems by growing seedlings and distributing them within mobile greenhouses to various schools in the district. With its full cycle aquaponics system, this facility demonstrates STEM in practice and has been successfully integrated into the STEM curriculum. We are proud to support schools in numerous activities, including robotics and other STEM programs, recycling efforts, energy education for teachers, preschool programs, career days, swim lessons, new computers, beautification projects and more. IMPROVING LIVES IN GERMANY In Germany, an employee committee is dedicated to finding ways to donate time and resources for social projects that mean the most to them. In 2018, employees spent more than 100 volunteer hours supporting several social organizations including: • Children’s health organizations like SOS Children’s Village and Familienhafen, an ambulant children’s hospice service. • Planting trees for the City of Hamburg to reduce carbon dioxide and improve air quality. • Giving time to build a garden and pack holiday presents for residents at the Anscharhöhe Foundation, a care facility for people with disabilities. The United Way provides services in virtually all of the communities where our employees live and work. Most of our locations in the United States participate in United Way campaigns. Employee participation is voluntary, and the company matches employee donations. Another organization that provides important social services in many of our communities is the American Red Cross. Phillips 66 donates regularly to the American Red Cross, including after crises. We gave $625,000 to support disaster relief efforts in 2018, including $500,000 to the American Red Cross for California wildfire relief and Hurricane Michael relief. The remaining funds went to local fire departments and safety organizations. CHAPTER 5 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Our industry is vitally important to the worldwide economy. As the foundation of economic development for our growing global population, energy needs to be reliable, abundant, accessible and affordable. With a diverse portfolio of assets in the Midstream, Chemicals, Refining and Marketing and Specialties businesses, we process, transport, store and market fuels and products globally. The Phillips 66 network of businesses means Phillips 66 is well positioned to benefit from continued demand for our products for decades to come. Below is a depiction of our business value chain. GLOBAL MARKETS CRUDE OIL WELLHEAD LIQUIDS AND NATURAL GAS *Non-operated joint ventures We produce transportation fuels and the materials necessary to create products for modern life. Phillips 66 products are used to create health care products and medical devices, pharmaceuticals, plastics and rubber, adhesives and sealants, electronics, smartphones, cars, batteries, agricultural products, and the wind turbines and solar panels that capture alternative energy. We’re an essential part of feeding, clothing and caring for the world’s growing population and moving its commerce. Components for Vehicles Health Care Products and Medical Devices PRODUCTS DERIVED FROM CRUDE OIL AND NGLs Components for Electronics Cosmetics Pharmaceuticals Plastics and Rubber Lubricants, Adhesives and Sealants Components for Wind Turbines and Solar Panels Components Fuels for Batteries Our employees have competitive salaries, generous benefits and fulfilling work, allowing them to improve their lives and contribute to the financial well-being of their communities. An annual average of 3,000 contractors, along with additional subcontractors and suppliers, all benefit from our business operations. Our company further contributes to the economy through the taxes we pay and by providing thousands of well-paying jobs. Since 2012, Phillips 66 has paid more than $8.7 billion in income, excise and property taxes to local, state and federal governments, helping to fund programs that include public schools, roads, bridges, ports and waterways. INFRASTRUCTURE We ensure our infrastructure and facilities operate safely and efficiently; doing so protects people and the environment. Over the last five years, our capital investments total more than $16 billion. Some key projects underway, or recently completed, include: • Six million additional barrels of storage capacity at our Phillips 66 Partners’ Clemens Caverns. This project will enable access to 200,000 barrels per day (BPD) of liquid petroleum gas (LPG) exports, capacity for 400,000 BPD of Natural Gas Liquid (NGL) fractionation, and access to 15 million barrels of total storage capacity. • Constructing two 150,000-BPD NGL fractionators at our Sweeny complex in Texas. • Modernizing the Sweeny Refinery fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) unit, which will enable us to produce additional higher valued petrochemical products and higher valued octane. The project is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2020. • Upgrades to the FCC units at the Wood River Refinery in Illinois and the Bayway Refinery in New Jersey, increasing our clean product yield. • At the Lake Charles Refinery in Louisiana, completed crude unit modifications to run additional advantaged domestic crudes. Our 2018 earnings of $5.6 billion and earnings per share of $11.80 were our highest ever. We generated $7.6 billion of operating cash flow and rewarded our shareholders with strong distributions. Since 2012, we have returned $22.5 billion to shareholders through dividends, share repurchases and share exchanges, reducing our initial shares outstanding by 30%. We achieved these results through our continued commitment to safe, reliable and environmentally sustainable operations. PHILLIPS 66 2018 IN REVIEW $5.6 Billion $2.6 Billion $11.80 IN TOTAL EARNINGS IN CAPITAL EXPENDITURES IN TOTAL EARNINGS PER SHARE $7.6 Billion $6.1 Billion IN CASH FROM OPERATIONS OF CAPITAL RETURNED $3 Billion in Cash TO SHAREHOLDERS ON HAND 