CHAPTER 3 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Operating excellence leads to strong environmental performance. We proactively work to protect the environment and minimize our impact by operating with high safety standards. Our industry is highly regulated and Phillips 66 complies with the many local, state and federal regulations that affect our operations, including air emissions, water effluent and solid waste handling. We strive to reduce environmental events that result in exceedances of permit or regulatory limits, and work to prevent significant releases of hydrocarbons or chemicals. Compliance with our HSEMS, as detailed in the Operating Excellence chapter, helps ensure our operations minimize impact on the environment. The HSEMS creates environmental awareness internally, and is the framework for consistently implementing and maintaining an environmental management system and monitoring our environmental performance. Over the five-year period from 2014 to 2018, we invested more than $6 billion in environmental protection projects and sustaining capital. These investments improve our operating standards and procedures, business assurance programs and companywide asset maintenance. We use energy and resources efficiently, invest in technology, research and development, and support habitat and conservation programs. We invest in technology to improve our assets, products and processes to be more efficient and to capitalize on emerging opportunities as the energy market transforms. Excel Paralubes Laboratory ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP AND EXCELLENCE Continuously improving the management of our operations also results in a steady reduction in the number of environmental events. Our business units have multiyear plans for environmental improvement. The plans are subject to internal auditing. Our business unit operations are dynamic and our “Plan-Do-Assess-Adjust” approach allows our HSEMS to be dynamic, too, and to achieve environmental improvement. Our trend in this area is shown in the chart below.  Environmental Events 150 140 130 120 110 100 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 We have an efficient operating model that helps us drive consistent performance and achieve excellent financial results while also stewarding impressive environmental improvements and standardizing compliance practices where it makes sense. Yet we want to improve further. Our Environmental Steering Teams (EST) network strengthened in 2018. The EST champions site-level improvement, tracking and reviewing key metrics and developing local improvement plans. Those plans are then assessed at the corporate level for holistic implementation that ensures effective use of resources. Leadership directs efforts to reduce environmental events and increase work practice consistency. Additionally, peer reviews of air permits, along with active environmental networks, allow subject matter experts in areas such as air monitoring, leak detection, waste management and water treatment to work cross functionally. They share best practices and lessons learned to define “what good looks like” and drive sustainable improvement. This method is now being adopted by business units. MONITORING ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Operations at each of our sites are monitored round-the-clock to ensure compliance with numerous environmental and operating permit requirements. We have established, and adhere to, environmental operating limits (EOLs), which correspond to limits in our operating permits. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has recognized our use of EOLs at our refining sites, where we set alarms that require action well before conditions exceed environmental limits. ISO CERTIFICATIONS Our facilities follow industry-leading quality management systems, and many are certified to International Organization for Standardization measures. • Our Lubricants business conforms to the ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System. Every one of our lubricants plants has achieved certification to ISO 14001 and the ISO 9001:2015/IATF16949:2016 Quality Management System 100% Standard. Lubricants Research and Development is accredited to the ISO/IEC 17025 standard for competence of testing and of lubricants calibration laboratories. plants are • Our Bayway Refinery’s polypropylene business in Linden, New Jersey, and our Wood River Refinery’s odorless mineral spirits ISO 14001 and benzene business lines in Roxana, Illinois, conform to the ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System Standards. and ISO 9001 • Our Humber Refinery in North Lincolnshire, U.K., is working to certified. transition to the new ISO 14001 standard and is currently certified to the 2015 version. Kaw Lake Pollinator Project AIR EMISSIONS We have made significant investments to reduce air emissions. Since 2012, air emissions from our Refining business unit have decreased 25%. The air research and development program at our Technology Center collaborates with government agencies, trade organizations and academic institutions to provide data that leads to effective rulemaking to improve air quality in the communities where we operate. AIR EMISSIONS  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  Air Emissions, global refining, (NOx-PM-SOx), (thousand tonnes)  25.2  24.4  23.7  24.3  23.6    NOx  13.2  12.1  12.0  11.9  12.0  PM  2.9  3.0  3.0  2.8  3.1    SOx  9.2  9.3  8.8  9.5  8.5  RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT More than 250 scientists work at our 440 acre research and development Technology Center in Bartlesville, Oklahoma. In house life cycle assessment professionals and a rigorous oversight process for all research projects help us identify the most impactful projects and technologies. We prioritize technologies that enhance operational excellence, in accordance with emissions and water regulations, and may be a viable part of the future energy mix. Research and development in analytical sciences, data analysis and modeling enable our refineries and midstream facilities to run more efficiently, manage water consumption and improve energy efficiency. Sustainability technology research helps minimize our environmental footprint on air emissions, water purification and remediation. Our energy transition team studies energy sources, storage and fuel cell technologies over the long term to discover options for future power generation. HYDROCARBON SPILLS The chart below shows hydrocarbon spills that occurred despite primary and secondary containment safeguards. In 2018, 60% of our hydrocarbon spill volume was related to a single event. We recovered 40% of the volume from the event. We also removed and replaced affected soil. Phillips 66 conducted in-depth analyses to determine what caused our spills and then adjusted our policies and practices, evaluated other sites and facilities, and shared what we learned with employees and contractors. We are improving the integrity testing of pipelines and using data analytics to reduce seam cracks. We are applying our technical resources and know how through joint studies with the Pipeline Research Council International and OneBridge Solutions, Inc. OIL SPILLS  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  Total number  50  67  60  60  50  Beyond secondary containment (bbls)  2,649  1,102  373  2,936  5,598  WATER MANAGEMENT AND USE Water is an essential resource in our manufacturing facilities and processes. All our refining assets have on-site water treatment systems, and many of them use available brackish, salt or non-fresh water, or have industrial reuse processes. Phillips 66 conducts research and develops best practices for water use to ensure we will have sufficient, sustainable water resources well into the future. For example, our microbiology research helps us identify the types of beneficial microorganisms that are critical to degrading nitrogen compounds in wastewater treatment and environmental processes. This information helps improve the quality of water discharged from our facilities. At our Billings Refinery, we recently added an enhanced biological treatment system that improves overall water quality. With research staff support, the unit was configured to also improve removal of heavy metals found naturally in crude. Our water research program is also evaluating new technologies and products to decrease our water footprint and recycle more water. We also collaborate with the University of Texas at Austin to investigate new membrane technologies that will allow refineries to more efficiently separate oil and water, improving our ability to recycle those resources and reduce waste. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF WATER & WASTE MANAGEMENT Our sites develop initiatives to improve the quality of material in water sewer systems, which feed wastewater treatment plants. A wastewater initiative at one refinery made notable improvements. Wastewater production rates are approximately 20-25% lower. Toxicity is lower, resulting in annual cost savings and a 66% reduction in biomass carryover. Benzene content is 60% lower, allowing efficient treatment, because we rerouted sample flush streams, identified proactive sampling upstream of the wastewater system and optimized hydrocarbon slop processing rates. WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING In 2018, Phillips 66 piloted a project in partnership with STC Industrial to sustainably manage hazardous refinery waste from tank cleaning projects. When refinery tanks are cleaned, we must dispose of the residual product. More than 10 million pounds of waste from our sites in California, Louisiana and Texas was moved to locations where it can be used as an alternative fuel source for kilns in the cement manufacturing industry. Cement manufacturing requires mixing limestone with clay or shale and then heating it to 2700°F. Recycled waste from the refinery tank cleanings can be used to fire the cement kilns. This method leaves no ash, so there’s nothing going to a landfill. And the process yields measurable results: in just one year, the pilot project kept more than 2,500 tons of waste out of landfills and provided more than 866,000 gallons of waste-derived fuel for the kilns. We track every raw material used in our manufacturing process at more than 85% of our lubricants plants. In 2018, we recycled nearly 1,100 tons of scrap material, including cardboard, bottles, cans, pallets and shrink wrap. WASTE MANAGEMENT  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  Recycled Materials7 (thousand gross tonnes)  197  209  165  175  141  10MM POUNDS OF WASTE USED FOR FUEL 2,500 TONS OF WASTE KEPT OUT OF LANDFILLS 866M GALLONS OF WASTE-DERIVED FUEL FOR THE KILNS M = thousand • MM = million GREENHOUSE GASES, CLIMATE CHANGE AND A LOWER CARBON FUTURE At Phillips 66, we provide energy that improves lives and contributes to meeting the world’s growing energy needs. Affordable, reliable and abundant energy is essential to sustaining human health and well-being while simultaneously improving the global standard of living. Climate change is a global issue that requires long-term commitment, action by every segment of society, technology development and free-market solutions. Phillips 66 recognizes the climate challenge and is making investments that advance a lower carbon future. Risk Management Our company utilizes a robust Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process to identify risks to our business or assets. We seek to identify and mitigate risks that have significant potential to affect our business. We also evaluate how we can create business opportunities. Our ERM program provides a systematic approach to understanding those risks, including: • Changes in energy policy; • Health, safety and environmental, physical or operational risks. Our risk management program includes evaluation of policy impacts. We utilize greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction cost curves, CO2 cost forecasting, energy efficiency indices and best practices, and renewable fuels forecasts to test our assumptions against and alongside regulatory requirements. Data on our GHG emissions, legal requirements regulating such emissions, and the possible physical effects of climate change on our assets are incorporated into our planning, investment and risk management decision making. Beaumont Terminal Action, Adaptation and Resilience Phillips 66 is taking action to enhance the resilience of our assets and to invest toward a lower carbon future. Programs include our industry-leading pipeline river crossing program, heightened levees at our Alliance Refinery in Belle Chasse, Louisiana, and the power substation elevation at our Bayway Refinery in Linden, New Jersey. We are committed to safety, reliability and environmental stewardship while maintaining shareholder value. To reduce and manage GHGs and sustain the affordable, reliable and abundant energy required for modern life, Phillips 66: • Has a long-term strategy that positions us for the future growth of lower GHG-emitting segments while maintaining our core operations. • Executes programs and initiatives to enhance the resilience of our assets. • Manages GHG emissions from our operations through measuring, reporting and developing technology to improve energy efficiency to lower GHG emissions. • Seeks manufacturing opportunities and uses of assets in lower carbon economy, including: » High quality premium coke, a component in batteries for electric vehicles and electronic devices. » Synthetic lubricants, which improve engine efficiency. » Blending renewable fuels. » Producing diesel made from renewable sources, such as food waste and agricultural sources. • Maintains a state-of-the.art Technology Center that researches energy transition, sustainability technologies, innovation and analytical sciences to support operating business units. • Adapts our businesses for, and mitigates against, physical risks while evaluating opportunities to execute our strategy. Clean up at Bayway Refinery FROM BLUE ACRES TO GREEN FIELDS In Linden, New Jersey, Phillips 66 partnered with a coalition led by the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation, Rutgers University, the New Jersey Coastal Restoration Project, and other agencies and businesses. The coalition is working to mitigate the danger of flooding from rainwater runoff and tidal flooding from nearby waterways. It s a serious concern for families who live in the 275 homes in Linden s Tremley Point area, a working class community not far from our Bayway Refinery. The coalition found an opportunity in the New Jersey Blue Acres Program. Bayway Refinery s donation created a 40 by 50 foot rain garden that will slow storm water runoff, act as a natural water filter, improve the ecosystem, restore wetlands and become a recreational area. Energy Efficiency Every day, our refineries process a combined average of more than two million barrels of crude into clean, affordable products. It takes energy to make and deliver energy on this scale. Energy expenditures can account for about 40% of a refinery’s operating expenses, so efficiencies matter. The majority of our Scope 1 GHG emissions are carbon dioxide (CO2), which is a result of the energy used to refine crude. We continuously and consistently monitor and report on our operations to assess risks and opportunities and increase energy efficiency to lower emissions. LUBRICANTS: REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Our finished lubricants business launched a new line of heavy duty engine oils in 2019 that proved through extensive testing to improve fuel economy by 2 3%. Additionally, we will convert all our consumer motor oil production to the new GF6 standard by May 2020, increasing fuel efficiency by 1 2%. We have demonstrated this in testing with a Ford F 150 truck and achieved more than 1% in fuel economy savings. Our relationships with Ford and other vehicle manufacturers allow us to be on the forefront of innovation as we work to increase average fuel Phillips 66 is the third largest finished lubricants economy across fleets. supplier in the United States. We make products for every key lubricants market, including Our base oils business has earned an organic automotive, trucking, agriculture, aviation, certification from the Organic Materials Review power generation, mining and construction. Institute for products used in agricultural sprays We also have a large base oils business, which for fresh fruits and vegetables. In addition, makes products used in everything from engine the business is part of the Horticultural Spray oil to cosmetics and sunscreens. With this large Oil Task Force, and we are funding a study to portfolio comes a responsibility to reduce our determine the impact our spray oils may have on environmental footprint. We ve done so in the honeybee population. several ways. We consider anticipated future GHG emissions when designing and developing major facilities and projects, and we implement energy efficiency initiatives that also reduce GHG emissions. GHG information is regularly provided to our board of directors and executive leadership team. This information is one of many important inputs that enables our board of directors and its committees to oversee and guide our company. We invest in engine and fuel optimization, pipeline energy optimization, refinery efficiency, instrumentation and controls upgrades, heat recovery hardware and energy dashboards that enable facility operators to make real-time decisions to enhance energy efficiency. We capitalize on opportunities for improvements in heat recovery, furnace controls and steam optimization. Projects range from installing new boilers to improving seals, adjusting inlet and stack temperatures, and optimizing steam use. We have an active Energy Best Practices network of representatives from all our refineries and major corporate support groups including Refining Business Improvement, Research & Development, and Information Technology. Members of the network meet regularly to share information about technology, experiences at their plants, and ongoing energy conservation projects. We also participate in regular industry benchmarking, and in 2018, our Ferndale Refinery in Washington and our Sweeny Refinery in Texas achieved Energy Star® status with the U.S. Department of Energy. Refineries earn Energy Star certifications when they perform in the top 25% of similar facilities nationwide for energy efficiency and meet EPA performance levels. Five of Phillips 66’s 12 U.S. refineries have earned Energy Star certifications from the EPA in recent years through voluntary efforts to reduce energy use. The others are Billings Refinery in Montana, Bayway Refinery in New Jersey and Lake Charles Refinery in Louisiana. We are growing while keeping GHG emissions steady. These are positive results of our efforts to advance efficiency and technology improvements in the company’s operations. Cogeneration Cogeneration is the use of a single fuel source to simultaneously produce both electricity and heat. The process helps us meet our manufacturing needs and convert heat that would otherwise be lost to the environment into thermal energy to power our process equipment. Seven of our refineries have associated cogeneration units. Two of our cogeneration plants produce steam and power that both serve our operating facilities and sell any excess into the local utility market. Even with more stringent regulatory standards and increasing utilization of our assets, our direct GHG emissions have varied little on an absolute basis. Sweeny Refinery Battery Fuel for Electric Vehicles Petroleum coke is a byproduct of the refining process, and we’ve commercialized high-grade graphite coke for about a third of the world’s lithium-ion battery anode market. We are now the premier market supplier for this key element of lithium ion batteries, which help power almost everything with an electrical circuit – from 75% of all electric vehicles (EVs) to millions of smartphones and other consumer electronics. Over five years, our Humber Refinery in the United Kingdom, in collaboration with our Technology Center, has grown production to a level that can produce enough batteries for 500,000 new EVs. Such collaboration across the local government and other authorities with businesses such as Phillips 66 has led to the Humber region being dubbed “The Energy Estuary.” Renewable Diesel and Alternative Fuels We are investing to achieve a goal of more than 40,000 barrels per day total supply of renewable diesel, which is also called “green diesel” or “drop-in biofuel,” and has virtually the same energy content as traditional diesel, but with a lower overall carbon intensity. It can, but doesn’t have to, be blended with traditional diesel. In partnership with Ryze Renewables, we’re supporting two renewable diesel production facilities in Nevada. The plants will manufacture renewable diesel fuel from agricultural oils and animal fats. These facilities are expected to produce renewable diesel fuel for markets in the western United States and Canada. Our Humber refinery is working to process used cooking oil into fuel. We are also partnering with Renewable Energy Group, Inc. (REG), on the construction of a large-scale renewable diesel plant adjacent to our Ferndale Refinery in Washington state. Using REG’s proprietary BioSynfining® technology, the plant will produce diesel fuel from waste fats, recycled cooking oils, including regionally sourced vegetable oils, and other renewable feedstocks. PILOTING HYDROGEN IN SWITZERLAND Our focus on finding more efficient energy solutions is a global one. We are committed to being part of the energy solution, and we adapt to market demands for various energy types. For example, in the hilly, mountainous terrain of Switzerland, battery operated vehicles are not viable, so to help lower emissions, the country has increased demand for hydrogen powered vehicles. To help meet the need, our European marketing team piloted a hydrogen fuel site in Switzerland in 2018. Coop Mineraloel AG, in which Phillips 66 has a 49% interest, opened a retail hydrogen filling station. The site has helped generate operational and economic insights about the future possibilities of hydrogen fueling stations. We have two more sites in the works and are expanding the program in 2019. Excel Paralubes Laboratory Organic Photovoltaic (OPV) OPV is a clean energy technology for electricity generation that will enable new solar applications. This research aligns well with Phillips 66’s expertise in plastics, materials science and analytical sciences. Due to its flexible and lightweight structure, OPV will produce electricity in areas where traditional solar cells will not work, including transparent applications, portable objects and disposable goods. There are also options for improving aesthetics with color, flexibility and design. We are developing OPVs that will be profitable without government subsidies. We have collaborated with National Renewable Energy Laboratories. Our polymer-based single junction OPV cells are also made without hazardous components such as lead or cadmium, which are found in some other types of solar technologies. Our polymers have led to breakthroughs in efficiency and longevity that help move solar technology closer to commercial viability. Solid Oxide Fuel Cells (SOFCs) SOFCs are electrochemical cells that generate electricity efficiently at a competitive cost, producing electricity by oxidizing a fuel, such as natural gas, through electrochemical reactions rather than combustion. Each Phillips 66 fuel cell is less than half a millimeter thick and produces approximately 30 watts of electricity. Cells can be stacked, and stacks can be bundled into modules. Phillips 66 SOFCs can generate electricity at high efficiencies from an abundant, reliable and inexpensive fuel source with twice the efficiency of conventional power plants. And they can be paired with solar- or wind-generated power, ensuring reliable energy even during periods when the sun is not shining or the wind is not blowing. SOFCs produce no noise, have a 50% lower carbon footprint compared with conventional power plants, have no combustion emissions, and are an ideal technology for CO2 capture. Their quiet, compact, modular design make SOFCs a convenient source for on-site power for homes and businesses, ensuring reliable energy even during traditional power grid outages. We have a broad SOFCs research agreement with Georgia Tech; the university supports the program with long-range materials development, advanced fuel cell characterization and modeling support. BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION Our environmental and sustainability strategy includes enhancing conservation and managing biodiversity risks. Phillips 66 mitigates impacts to biodiversity through planning processes aimed at reducing the effects of our activities on the environment. We address biodiversity conservation during the planning and development of major capital projects by conducting environmental impact analyses, collecting key environmental data and implementing mitigation and monitoring programs to reduce impacts and assure results. The company also promotes biodiversity and conservation by providing educational materials to communities where we operate and market our products, partnering with these communities to address issues that are important to the people who live near our facilities. We also collaborate with local environmental and conservation organizations and national partners to promote biodiversity and environmental stewardship. We have longstanding partnerships with many national conservation organizations, including the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, Ducks Unlimited, and the Wildlife Habitat Council. We support their efforts in many ways: we donate money and resources, employees volunteer their time and make monetary contributions – many of which are matched by the company – and even our summer interns take advantage of opportunities to volunteer. Phillips 66 celebrated 25 years of sponsoring the San Bernard National Wildlife Refuge, and our 2017 donation to the Gulf Coast Initiative continues to preserve the Texas and Louisiana coasts and wetlands. REBUILDING REEFS IN THE GULF OF MEXICO Fishing in Louisiana accounts for an estimated $2.4 billion in annual economic activity. But erosion and land loss along the coastline threaten fish habitats, reduce community storm buffers and affect transportation and energy infrastructure. The Coalition to Restore Coastal Louisiana (CRCL) is dedicated to rebuilding the state s coastline. Phillips 66 proudly supports CRCL programs, including habitat restoration efforts like planting dune and marsh grass, installing sand fences, planting trees and recycling. Through a unique partnership with industry and local businesses, CRCL gathers oyster shells from more than a dozen restaurants to build reefs along the Louisiana shoreline. Thousands of tons of shells that would have been shucked and chucked into landfills support new life when they re used to create beds for oysters while also bolstering shorelines and mitigating erosion. A grant from Phillips 66 s Lake Charles Manufacturing Complex also helped the Coastal Conservation Association s Building Conservation Trust fund a project to add four acres to a reef in Calcasieu Lake. The added acreage was installed in July 2018 and was the first enhancement to the reef since its creation in 2012. Roughly 2,000 tons of limestone and recycled concrete were used to create low relief shell reef” type structures to attract shrimp, crabs and baitfish, which is good for recreational anglers and the local economy. 