To Our Stakeholders, Each year, as we report our sustainability efforts, we are afforded achance to reflect on our successes and acknowledge the work that still lies ahead. On May 1,2022, we celebrated 10 years of providing energy and improving lives at Phillips 66. It&#39;sbeen a decade of progress built on our nearly 150-year heritage. Our high-performingorganization stands on our values of safety, honor and commitment and remains focused onoperating excellence, growth, returns and distributions. We are experts in making and movingthe energy of today, and we are motivated by the opportunities we see all around us tooptimize our businesses to thrive as energy systems evolve. That&#39;s why we arestrengthening our core businesses, expanding our digital capabilities, using technology toimprove operating efficiencies and transforming our organization to increase productivity. Wehave ambitious goals, and we’re taking deliberate steps to achieve them. You’ll also read inthis report about our Emerging Energy group, introduced in 2021, and its focus on renewablefuels, batteries, carbon capture and hydrogen. You will also read about Rodeo Renewed,which is transforming our San Francisco Refinery in Rodeo, California, into one of theworld&#39;s largest renewable fuels plants. Here, we detail how, in the United Kingdom, ourHumber Refinery is an example of the future of refining. Its sustainable aviation fuel is nowpowering flights for British Airways, and it stands poised to be the first refinery in the world touse a promising new carbon capture technology. These projects and others — like ourinvestments in the U.S. battery chain and our joint venture to build a network of hydrogenfueling stations in Europe — are tangible steps toward our 2030 and 2050 GHG emissionsreduction targets. As we move forward, we will strive to be capital-disciplined, energyefficient and supportive of our stakeholders. Throughout this report, you&#39;ll read abouthow we&#39;re working with new and existing companies, bringing fresh perspectives andfinding creative solutions to the challenges of our time. Innovation is part of who we are, andit is driven by our employees. They are empowered to think big, try new things and developsolutions that advance our priorities and position our company for long-term resilience.Greg GarlandThis year, as we transition CEO leadership at Phillips 66, we are all guided by our vision ofproviding energy and improving lives, inspired by our culture and values, and intently focusedon being the best operator in the business. Thank you for your interest in Phillips 66. Wewelcome your feedback. In safety, honor and commitment,Greg Garland2PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMark LashierMark LashierOur Approach to Sustainability Sustainability shapes how we define and execute our strategywhich supports the long-term resilience and competitiveness of the company. It is organizedaround operating excellence, environmental stewardship, social responsibility, governanceand financial performance. Our approach has enabled us to deliver on our vision to provideenergy and improve lives, and to drive shareholder value since our start in 2012. ABOUT THISREPORT Phillips 66 has published annual sustainability metrics and information on ourwebsite since the company was founded in 2012. This year’s report continues thattransparency with critical performance data, the inclusion of feedback from our stakeholderengagement programs, details on our governance, oversight, policies and programs, as wellas acknowledgment of our achievements and descriptions of our investments and resources,all of which are vital to our company&#39;s long-term sustainability. We have assessed ouroperations against the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) materiality criteriafor Refining, Marketing and Midstream, addressing those most relevant to our business andstakeholders, and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. SASB and GRI information isincluded on the Phillips 66 Supplemental Information website. We also provide analysis anddisclosures based on the latest version of the Task Force of Climate-related FinancialDisclosures (TCFD) framework. In compiling this report, we considered industry tradeassociation publications, including sustainability reporting guidance for the oil and gasindustry published by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute and the InternationalAssociation of Oil &amp; Gas Producers. Unless otherwise explicitly stated, this report coversPhillips 66&#39;s performance in 2021 and focuses on outcomes from our operated assets,including our master limited partnership, Phillips 66 Partners LP, and WRB Refining LP, anoperated joint venture. Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem) and DCPMidstream, LLC publish sustainability reports on their websites for interested readers. Aglossary of our terms can be found in the Performance Data section of this report.Ferndale Refinery FERNDALE, WAOUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY3OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTOur Businesses: Today and TomorrowSan Francisco Refinery RODEO, CA4PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe are providing energy and finding lower-carbon ways to meet the world&#39;s energydemands and power human progress toward tomorrow.OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROW5OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTWe work to meet the world&#39;s growing energy needs and improve lives across the globe.Through our diverse portfolio of assets in our Midstream, Chemicals, Refining, and Marketingand Specialties businesses, we manufacture, transport and market products that drive theglobal economy. Our company and our industry have an important role in people&#39;squality of life every day. We work to provide affordable, reliable energy while also positioningPhillips 66 for long-term competitiveness. We have an inclusive culture that promotesinnovation and delivers value for our stakeholders. We recognize the need for investments toaddress climate challenges. This is why we&#39;re using our existing infrastructure andcapabilities along with our research into emerging energies and renewables to help us thrivein the energy transition. ACHIEVING LONG-TERM CHANGE We are committed to helping theworld address climate change. In 2021, we set measurable, impactful and attainable targetsfor GHG emissions intensity reductions. By 2030, we plan to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2emissions intensity from our operations by 30% and Scope 3 emissions intensity of ourenergy products by 15% below 2019 levels. In 2022, we added a goal to reach a 50%companywide reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by 2050. Our commitmentto a lower-carbon future includes our investment in technology to improve our assets,products and processes for increased efficiency and the ability to capitalize on emergingpossibilities as the energy market transforms. We recognize our employees&#39; skills willevolve during the energy transition. Please refer to our Stakeholder Engagement section formore information about our approach to a just transition. Our compensation plan is alignedwith these priorities, and, in 2021, we increased the weight of environmental metrics incalculating our annual incentive program payouts. According to the U.S. Energy InformationAdministration (EIA), global energy consumption is projected to increase by almost 50% by2050, with petroleum and other liquid fuels remaining the main source of that energy.Achieving long-term GHG emissions reductions is ambitious and will require changes atPhillips 66, throughout our industry and in the rest of the world. The effort will also requiresignificant shifts in consumer behavior, and supply chains will need to adjust. We believe thatnational policies are needed to spur investment in lower-carbon infrastructure and technologydevelopment. While petroleum and other liquid fuels will still be the main source of energy in2050, renewables will likely be the fastest-growing energy source.6PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOUR POSITION ON CLIMATE CHANGE Phillips 66 recognizes the need to address climatechange, and we know that access to energy is an important part of the solution to many ofthe world&#39;s major challenges. We develop affordable energy solutions to promote humanprogress and economic growth while also advancing climate change solutions. The companysupports global action to reduce GHG emissions. Our approach is to improve the efficiency ofour diversified and resilient operations and make investments to meet the world’s evolvingenergy needs while advancing a lower-carbon future. Phillips 66 supports climate policy that:•• • •• • •Offers market-based, economywide solutions that are fuel- and technologyneutral for allenergy sources to facilitate the meaningful GHG emissions reductions that are most beneficialand least costly to society Balances economic, environmental, energy security and localcommunity needs Rationalizes overlapping policies or programs Ensures that energyproducers, manufacturers and suppliers are responsible for their direct emissions Recognizesand appropriately accounts for early or voluntary actions Makes any regulatory cost, andassociated climate benefits, transparent to the consumer Promotes fundamental publicresearch at the pre-commercial stage to advance viable energy solutions2021 Financial Performance As part of the nation’s critical infrastructure, we navigated achallenging economic landscape while continuing to safely provide reliable, abundant,accessible and affordable energy. We funded our sustaining capital programs, generated $6billion of operating cash flow, paid down $1.5 billion of debt, and reported record earnings inMidstream, Chemicals, and Marketing and Specialties. We are an essential part of the valuechain for many businesses and industries. In addition to manufacturing transportation fuels,we produce the raw materials used to create health care products and medical devices,including personal protective equipment, pharmaceuticals, plastics and rubber, adhesives andsealants, electronics, smartphones, cars, batteries, agricultural products, and the windturbines and solar panels that capture alternative energy. The petroleum coke we produce ispart of the global supply chain for electric vehicles (EVs), and it also enables steel recycling.Our lubricants reduce friction to improve efficiency and cool EV battery packs.WEB-EXCLUSIVE VIDEO Our Value Chain AT A GLANCECapital Investments Our $1.9 billion 2022 capital program includes $916 million for growthcapital, 45% of which supports lowercarbon opportunities. We&#39;re also planning to invest$1 billion in energy-efficiency projects over the next decade.$13+ billion$1.9 billionin capital investments over the past five yearsin capital investments in 2022For more details on our assets and operations, read the Year in Review. Financial informationis available on the Phillips 66 Investors site.Bayway Refinery LINDEN, NJOUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROW7OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTEmerging Energy In 2021, we launched our Emerging Energy organization. Our team, fromvarious disciplines, is focused on executing our lower-carbon strategy by commercializingand implementing new technology within our operations and portfolio of assets andincreasing renewable power usage. The team concentrates on four key areas: building onexisting businesses to become a market leader in renewable fuels, participating in the batteryvalue chain, establishing a competitive position in carbon capture and participating in low-carbon hydrogen markets.Global Specialties Provides Essential Products Our Global Specialties business brings value toour diversified portfolio and vertical integration between refining and petrochemicalprocesses. We refine and sell specialty products, including fuel coke, premium coke, solventsand polypropylene, all of which contribute to improving the quality of life worldwide. We arethe only producer and marketer of specific grades of petroleum coke, which are used inmanufacturing steel, lithium-ion batteries, aluminum, titanium dioxide and specialty graphiteproducts. While making clean products, our Bayway facility in Linden, New Jersey, alsoupgrades refining gas byproducts to make polypropylene resin. Polypropylene is recyclableand used in automotive components, appliances, carpeting, and health care and hygieneproducts.AT A GLANCEEV Specialty Products Our products can be found in all types of vehicles.Paint, AdhesivesFuel Coke, Hexane, Heptane, Odorless Mineral SpiritsGlassCarpet, Cable Insulation, NylonDashboardPolypropylene, Cyclohexane, SulfurPolypropylene, CyclohexaneFuel Coke Aluminum BodyAnode CokeBumperPolypropylene8PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSteel BodyBatteryNeedle Coke, Odorless Mineral SpiritsAnode Needle Coke Tire/RubberSulfur, HexaneResearch and Innovation Phillips 66 is one of the few downstream energy companies with in-house research and development capabilities via our Energy Research &amp; Innovation (ERI)organization. In addition to supporting current operations, this team supports a lower-carbonfuture by helping to develop and commercialize new technologies. The scientists andengineers at our Phillips 66 Research Center in Bartlesville, Oklahoma, work to enhance thesafety and reliability of our operations and to develop air, water and energy solutions,including battery technology and solid oxide fuel cells (SOFCs), which can be used forelectricity storage. Phillips 66 has 399 active U.S. patents in specialty carbon, premium coke,low-carbon hydrogen, solid oxide fuel cells, carbon capture, organic photovoltaics andbiofuels, as of Dec. 31, 2021. SOLID OXIDE FUEL CELLS Phillips 66 continues to progress itssolid oxide fuel cell technology, holding nine U.S. patents and 29 U.S. pending patentapplications in our SOFC&#39;s intellectual property portfolio. • • • •We published our patented SOFCs fabrication technique and research data in the Journal ofthe American Ceramic Society We installed a field demonstration of this technology at aPhillips 66 pipeline that has been in operation since 2020 We anticipate a second applicationwill be installed at a Phillips 66 marketing site in 2022 In 2021, we announced that Phillips 66was awarded a $3 million grant from the U.S. Department of Energy to advance high-performance reversible SOFCsPhillips 66 Research Center BARTLESVILLE, OKAT A GLANCESOFCs Explained SOFCs generate electricity efficiently by oxidizing a fuel, such as naturalgas, through electrochemical reactions rather than combustion. SOFCs can generateelectricity at high efficiencies from an abundant, reliable and inexpensive fuel source. Theyproduce no noise, have a 50% lower-carbon footprint than conventional power plants, haveno combustion emissions and are an ideal technology for carbon dioxide (CO2) capture.SOFCs also can be paired with solar- or wind-generated power, ensuring reliable energy evenwhen the sun is not shining or the wind is not blowing. Their quiet, compact, modular designmakes them a convenient source of on-site power for homes and businesses.Single cell Air Fuel SOFC stackOUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROW9OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTRenewable Diesel and Alternative Fuels Phillips 66 provides transportation fuels that movepeople and goods, and as we push forward into a lowercarbon future, we are prioritizingrenewable fuel projects that leverage existing infrastructure. We will process waste fats,cooking oils and other renewable feedstocks into transportation fuels. In 2021, we beganproducing renewable fuels from vegetable oil at our San Francisco Refinery in Rodeo,California, and we refine fuel from used cooking oil (UCO) at our Humber Refinery in NorthLincolnshire, United Kingdom. In 2021, we announced that we are securing feedstock for ourgrowing portfolio of renewable fuels projects by investing in Shell Rock Soy Processing, a newsoybean-processing plant in Iowa. Additionally, we support future renewable dieselproduction through our agreement with New Rise Renewables in Nevada. CONVERTING OURSAN FRANCISCO REFINERY The Rodeo facility&#39;s focus on energy efficiency wasrecognized in early 2020 when it became the first crude oil refinery in California to earn anEnvironmental Protection Agency (EPA) ENERGY STAR certification for superior energyefficiency. Now we&#39;re taking the refinery to the next phase. It&#39;s being converted toprocess waste fats, UCO and other renewable feedstocks. When the conversion is completein early 2024, Rodeo will be one of the world’s largest renewable fuels facilities, able toproduce more than 800 million gallons per year (over 50,000 BPD) of renewable diesel,renewable gasoline and sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). The conversion is expected tosignificantly reduce criteria pollutant emissions from our operations, preserve well-payingjobs and help California meet both its demand for transportation fuels and its environmentalgoals. To further reduce GHG emissions, the refinery is pursuing other sustainable projects,including solar power to provide electricity to run its processes and exploring carbon capture.Phillips 66 made a final investment decision in 2022 to move forward with Rodeo Renewedafter the project received approval from Contra Costa County.San Francisco Refinery RODEO, CA10PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAT A GLANCERodeo Renewed The Rodeo Renewed project will help California meet regional demand forrenewable and conventional transportation fuels while assisting the state in achieving itsenvironmental goals, including carbon neutrality by 2050. Projected environmental andeconomic results are highlighted below.EMISSIONS (Once converted)80% sulfur oxides (SOX)20%33% nitrous oxides (NOX)particulate-matter emissions (PM10)65% fewer life-cycle carbon emissions, the equivalent of taking 1.4 million cars off the roadeach year160 million800 milliongallons of water saved per yeargallons of renewable transportation fuels produced per year, including:• •Renewable diesel: a high-cetane fuel that runs in all diesel engines and has a lower-carbonintensity than conventional diesel Sustainable aviation fuel: a lower-carbon intensity fuelalternative for the airline industryFEEDSTOCKSJOBS IN CONTRA COSTA COUNTYWe will have the capability to process a variety of renewable feedstocks, including:650• • •Fats and greases Used cooking oil Vegetable oilsfull-time and contractor jobs preserved through the conversion500 construction jobs to be created and filled using local union labor~4 million projected construction work-hoursOUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROW11OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTBRINGING MORE RENEWABLE FUELS TO CALIFORNIA DRIVERS Biodiesel and renewablediesel are both renewable fuels but have different manufacturing processes. Biodiesel&#39;sprocess requires it be blended with traditional diesel before being used in an engine.Renewable diesel can be used as a drop-in fuel. Our Richmond and Sacramento terminals inCalifornia have blended up to 20% biodiesel since 2018. We also blend biodiesel at our ColtonTerminal in Bloomington, California. In 2021, we added capability to sell renewable diesel inalmost 600 76 branded stations in California. ADVANCING SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL SAFis a lower-carbon intensity aviation fuel produced from renewable feedstocks such as wasteoils, fats, greases and vegetable oils. Because it is a drop-in fuel, it works in existing aircraftengines and airport fuel infrastructure. Phillips 66 is a major U.S. refiner and supplier ofpetroleum jet fuel and avgas, and, in 2021, we signed a multiyear supply agreement withBritish Airways to provide SAF directly to the airline through existing pipelines. Also in 2021,we signed a memorandum of understanding with Southwest Airlines to advance thecommercialization of SAF in the United States. These agreements leverage our history ofinnovation and our expertise in refining, distribution and technical commercialization.76 branded station PLEASANT HILL, CAENABLING ADOPTION OF EVs Lithium-ion batteries help power products from EVs to millionsof smartphones and other consumer electronics, and the need for these batteries is projectedto experience sharp growth over the coming decades. We are a market supplier for the cokeused as a precursor in lithium-ion batteries, and our battery program is focused on improvingexisting materials. As part of this effort, we are working to find ways to incorporate readilyavailable, responsibly sourced materials that have the potential to extend the driving rangefor EVs. In 2021, we acquired a 16% stake in NOVONIX, and we have an agreement to advancethe production and commercialization of next-generation anode materials for lithium-ionbatteries. The agreement enables both companies to leverage leading industry positions,existing intellectual property, and research and development capabilities to drive commercialdevelopment of optimized feedstocks and lithium-ion anode materials with reduced carbon-intensive processing. We’re also part of a technical collaboration with battery-maker Faradionto develop lower-cost and higherperforming anode materials for sodium-ion batteries. Thisenergy storage technology has an advantage because it uses sustainable and widelyavailable materials. The collaboration is expected to leverage our experience developingspecialty carbon materials and Faradion’s work as a leader in sodium-ion battery technology.Applications for this technology include mobility, stationary storage, backup power andenergy in remote locations. In 2022, we signed a letter of intent with FreeWire Technologies insupport of its first EV charging program in the United States. The program will bringconsumers electric fueling stations that meet their expectations for highspeed, on-the-gocharging. In addition to batteries, we produce high-performing lubricants formulated to meetthe unique needs of EVs. In 2021, we launched the new Phillips 66 e-Shield line of products,including system fluid, grease and coolant. 12PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCAPTURING CARBON FROM OUR OPERATIONS Carbon capture and storage (CCS) couldenable decarbonization across manufacturing and heavy industry. International EnergyAgency (IEA) projections indicate that, by 2040, CCS could lower global emissions by asmuch as 15%. Without this technology, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel onClimate Change estimates global decarbonization efforts could be twice as costly. Phillips 66joined several other companies in 2021 in expressing support for the large-scale deploymentof CCS technology in and around the Houston, Texas, industrial area. Together, thesecompanies and others in the region could capture and store up to 50 million tons of CO2 peryear by 2030 and about 100 million tons per year by 2040. In 2021, the U.S. Department ofEnergy awarded Phillips 66 a grant to perform an initial engineering design study foremploying CCS technology at the hydrogen production unit at our San Francisco Refinery inRodeo, California. We are also evaluating projects to decarbonize our operations at otherlocations, including the Humber Refinery in the United Kingdom. Humber Refinery NORTHLINCOLNSHIRE, UNITED KINGDOMUSING HYDROGEN AS A FUEL Hydrogen is important in a number of manufacturing andagricultural applications. Phillips 66 is evaluating ways to invest in using hydrogen in ouroperations and expanding consumer choices as a transportation fuel. Hydrogen fuel can beproduced from 100% renewable energy, including hydropower, wind, sun, biomass andgeothermal sources, and when hydrogen is used to power fuel cell electric vehicles, theemissions are entirely CO2-free. In 2022, we announced our commitment to form a jointventure with H2 Energy Europe to develop as many as 250 retail hydrogen refueling stationsin Germany, Austria and Denmark by 2026. The partnership leverages the strength of ourexisting JET brand and will also utilize new locations on major transportation routes. Weanticipate demand for hydrogen will, in part, come from H2 Energy’s ownership in HyundaiHydrogen Mobility, a European retail and distribution partner for Hyundai&#39;s commerciallyavailable heavy-duty fuel cell truck.250 projected hydrogen refueling stations in Europe by 2026Our Swiss joint venture, Coop Mineraloel AG, in which Phillips 66 has a 49% interest, alreadyhas a hydrogen fueling program and has worked with Hyundai on the world’s first fleet ofhydrogen-powered trucks.Coop hydrogen fuel station HUNZENSCHWIL, SWITZERLANDOUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROW13OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTBuilding a Lower-carbon Value Chain Phillips 66 Limited, a U.K.-based, wholly ownedsubsidiary of Phillips 66, is pursuing projects, technologies and partnerships that supportdecarbonization and the U.K. government’s 2050 net-zero ambitions. We are creating therefinery of the future by producing lower-carbon fuels from waste and reducing the carbonintensity of our manufacturing processes. We are also contributing to the growth of a lower-carbon value chain by supplying battery-grade coke to power EVs, supporting EV chargingstations and developing hydrogen refueling networks. FROM USED COOKING OIL TO USABLEFUEL In 2017, the Humber Refinery was the first refinery in the United Kingdom to producehigh-performing biofuels at scale when we started using UCO in our refining processes. Thedecarbonization benefit of using waste oil in refining is significant. Life-cycle emissions are90% lower with UCO than with conventional fuels. Through co-processing waste oils andother renewable feedstocks, Humber produces a broad range of products, from battery coketo bio-propane, bio-gasoline and SAF. UCO unit at Humber Refinery NORTH LINCOLNSHIRE,UNITED KINGDOMDEVELOPMENT FUELS In 2021, the Humber Refinery became the United Kingdom&#39;s firstat-scale development fuels processor. Development fuels are made from sustainable waste,residues or substances of non-biological origins. We are finding ways to convert problematicwaste streams into lower-carbon fuels.SAF testing at Humber Refinery NORTH LINCOLNSHIRE, UNITED KINGDOMSUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL Humber is the first refinery in the U.K. to produce SAF at scale.We are a member of the Department for Transport’s Jet Zero Council Delivery Group andsupport U.K. government plans for a future SAF mandate and a business model for investingin advanced waste-to-jet-fuel projects. In 2022, we made our first delivery of SAF to BritishAirways from our Humber Refinery as part of a multiyear supply agreement. In recognition ofthis achievement, Humber Refinery received the Humber Renewables award for GreenInnovation in 2022. RENEWABLE DIESEL Alongside our work to provide the lower-carbon fuelsof tomorrow such as hydrogen and EV batteries, we are also focused on decarbonizing theexisting road fleet. JET Renewable Diesel is a fuel that is chemically similar to conventionalfossil-fuel-based diesel, but it&#39;s derived from biomass sources such as used cooking oil,fats, greases and vegetable oils, resulting in a fuel of significantly lower-carbon intensity. JETRenewable Diesel is independently verified as meeting Europe&#39;s BS EN 590 diesel fuelspecifications and specific sustainability and supply chain criteria. This qualifies it as arenewable transportation fuel under U.K. law. 14PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEV BATTERY COKE Humber Refinery is the only European facility producing battery-gradecoke, which forms a critical component for batteries in EVs and consumer electronics.Coker unit at Humber Refinery NORTH LINCOLNSHIRE, UNITED KINGDOMBy 2024, all U.K.- and EU-produced EVs are required to have at least 55% of the vehiclecontent by value produced domestically. EV CHARGING We are supporting decarbonization ofthe U.K. car fleet through the launch of JET Charge ultra-rapid charging service. This servicedebuted at our JET Refinery service station in Immingham, providing high-speed chargers forEV drivers. JET Charge EV charging unit at New Park service station DARLINGTON, UNITEDKINGDOMCARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE Humber Refinery sits in the largest GHG-emittingindustrial cluster in the United Kingdom and can play a pivotal role in not only reducing itsown carbon footprint but also the wider region&#39;s. Humber Zero We are a leader inHumber Zero, a regional CCS project capable of removing 8 million metric tons of CO2 peryear by 2030. Phillips 66 and combined heat and power company VPI Immingham areinvesting a total of £12.5 million to advance the Humber Zero project. Innovate UK IndustrialStrategy Challenge Fund is matching that investment. RENEWABLE HYDROGEN Phillips 66believes the U.K. has the potential to be a global leader in low-carbon hydrogen production,with exciting applications in transportation fuels, home heating, power storage anddecarbonizing industrial processes that require energy inputs at levels electrification cannotachieve. Gigastack Humber Refinery is part of a consortium leading the Gigastack project togenerate renewable hydrogen using renewable power from wind, which will be used to heatthe refinery&#39;s furnaces and reduce fuel consumption. The refinery has an existingindustrial-scale hydrogen infrastructure, mitigating the risks and costs associated with low-carbon hydrogen projects. We are working toward a low-carbon hydrogen refueling networkcapable of supplying hard-to-decarbonize elements of the transportation sector, such asheavy goods vehicles and ships. By leveraging Gigastack, we can deliver low-carbonhydrogen produced using wind power for vehicles not suited to battery technology. OURBUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROW15OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTEnvironment and SafetyPonca City Refinery PONCA CITY, OK16PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe take the time to work safely — every job, every day — to protect people and theenvironment.ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY17OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTIn 2021, sustainability priorities were integrated into key company systems, including capitalguidelines, Health, Safety and Environmental Management System (HSEMS) assessment, newhire orientations and asset acquisitions. We operate in a highly regulated industry and complywith the many local, state and federal regulations that affect our operations, including thoseconcerning air emissions, water effluent and solid waste-handling. We strive to eliminateenvironmental events, and we work to prevent releases of hydrocarbons or chemicals. OurHealth, Safety and Environment (HSE) policy defines our commitment to protecting ouremployees, contractors, customers and communities while achieving our goals for growth,returns and distributions. We integrate our health, occupational safety, process safety andenvironmental stewardship principles throughout our businesses, with a commitment tocontinuous improvement that minimizes our potential impact on our neighbors and theenvironment. We also consult with stakeholders on environmental issues.Health, Safety and Environmental Management Our HSE policy is the foundation for ourHSEMS. The HSEMS creates environmental awareness internally and is the framework forconsistently monitoring our environmental performance and ensuring our operations minimizetheir impact on the environment. Our HSEMS guides our entire workforce, including labor andmanagement, experienced workers, new hires, contractors and subcontractors. It providesthe framework to reduce risks and improve performance while establishing a continuousimprovement process for policy implementation, leadership expectations and core values.This focus on operating excellence facilitates HSE performance and compliance with keystandards, procedures and guidelines. Our rules apply to all business units and are oftenstricter than regulatory requirements. Core standards include reporting, metrics, crisismanagement, emergency response, due diligence, incident investigation, risk assessment andcorporate auditing. Our rigorous auditing protocols enable us to assess our performance andprogress frequently. On-site inspections are conducted by both third-party auditors andPhillips 66 internal auditors trained to recognize health and safety best practices. Alldeviations are investigated and corrected. All Phillips 66 sites have HSE controls andpractices, along with HSE management and staff dedicated to excellence and risk mitigation.Our Senior Vice President of HSE and Projects has direct responsibility for the HSEMS andreports directly to our Chief Executive Officer. HSE considerations are embedded into everytask and business decision. Our business units have internally audited multiyear plans forenvironmental improvement. Our dynamic &quot;Plan-Do-Assess-Adjust&quot; approachallows our HSEMS to be proactive in making adjustments to drive environmental progress.Ferndale Refinery FERNDALE, WA18PHILLIPS 66 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur Environmental Steering teams drive site-level improvement, track and review key metrics,and develop improvement plans. Those plans are shared with corporate leadership tohighlight best practices. Leadership directs efforts to reduce environmental events andincrease work practice consistency. Additionally, peer reviews of air permits and activeenvironmental networks allow subject-matter experts in areas such as air monitoring, leakdetection, waste management and water treatment to work across functions. They share bestpractices and lessons learned to drive sustainable improvement. Business units are alsoadopting this method.From 2017 to 2021, we invested approximately $5 billion in sustaining capital, which includesenvironmental protection projects. In 2021, we invested over $800 million in safety,environmental and reliability projects, with approximately $500 million targeted specifically forrefining reliability, safety and environmental projects. These investments improve ouroperating standards and procedures, business assurance programs, and companywide assetmaintenance. We use energy and other resources efficiently, make strategic investments inresearch and development, and support habitat and conservation programs. We also focus oninvestments in technology to improve our assets, products and processes to increaseefficiency.AT A GLANCEAwards and RecognitionTHREE REFINERIES ACHIEVED AFPM SAFETY AWARDS AFPM bestowed its safety recognitionawards for Distinguished Safety Award, Distinguished Safety Award, the industry&#39;shighest recognition to: the industry&#39;s highest recognition to: Sweeny Refinery SweenyRefineryElite Gold Safety Award, top 1% of industry performance: Elite Gold Safety Award, BillingsRefinery top 1% of industry performance: Elite Silver Safety Award, topRefinery 5% of industryperformance: Billings Bayway RefineryElite Silver Safety Award, top 5% of industry performance:MIDSTREAM SAFETY PERFORMANCE RECOGNITION GPA Midstream Company Safety AwardGPA Midstream Perfect Record Award API Distinguished Pipeline Safety Award ILTAInternational Liquid Terminals Association Platinum Safety AwardBayway Refinery31 VPP STAR FACILITIESSIX ENERGY STAR SITESOSHA Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) recognition across our Refining, Midstream andLubricants operationsRefineries that have earned this US EPA certification since 2012&quot;MOST TRUSTWORTHY COMPANY AWARD&quot; From Newsweek in 2021ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY19OUR BUSINESSES: TODAY AND TOMORROWENVIRONMENT AND SAFETYGOVERNANCESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTOSHA’S VOLUNTARY PROTECTION PROGRAM Across our Refining, Midstream and Lubricantsassets, 31 facilities have Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) VoluntaryProtection Program (VPP) STAR recognition, meaning about half our U.S. employees work at aVPP site. Six contractor companies at our sites also participate in VPP. The STAR recognitionis OSHA&#39;s highest workplace honor, and to maintain this status, each site must completeselfevaluations every year and undergo an OSHA site inspection every three to five years. In2021, our Tacoma Terminal in Washington, and our Coke Handling Terminal and Clifton RidgeMarine Terminal in Louisiana all achieved VPP STAR recertification for another five years. ISOCERTIFICATIONS Our facilities follow Phillips 66 quality management systems, and many arecertified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) measures. Some customersrequire this certification of our polypropylene products and lubricants, and even though wedon&#39;t certify all units to ISO, our comprehensive process safety event (PSE) andenvironmental management systems meet or exceed ISO standards. Our Lubricants businessconforms to the ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System. Five of our lubricantsfacilities have certification to ISO 14001 and the ISO 9001:2015/IATF16949:2016 QualityManagement System Standard. Lubricants Research and Development is accredited to theISO/IEC 17025 standard for testing and calibration laboratories. Bayway Refinery&#39;spolypropylene business in Linden, New Jersey, is certified to ISO 9001:2015 for the designand manufacturing of pellets. We have numerous practices for containing and mitigating loss.Pellets are piped to an on-site storage silo, creating a closed system. From there, the productis blended and fed into rail cars for transportation to customers. We inspect rail cars foroperable and closed caps and valves. Environmental performance includes collecting scrapand vacuuming sumps to recycle pellets, preventing plastic pellets from leaving the property.We are prepared with booms and vacuum trucks should a spill occur. Our Bayway facilitymanagement and employees are committed to Operation Clean Sweep and support the goalof zero pellet loss. We have also implemented a rail car return policy intended to eliminate thepossibility of pellets entering the environment due to unsealed or improperly sealed rail carsreturning from our customers. Wood River Refinery’s odorless mineral spirits and benzenebusiness lines in Roxana, Illinois, conform to ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management SystemStandards. In the United Kingdom, the Humber Refinery is working to transition to the newISO 14001 standard and is certified to the 2015 version. Polypropylene unit at BaywayRefinery LINDEN, NJ