Environmental StewardshipFerndale RefineryFERNDALE, WA38We proactively work to protect the 
environment and minimize our impact.39PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCEGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Operating excellence leads to strong environmental performance. Our industry is highly regulated, and Phillips 66 complies with the many local, state and federal regulations that affect our operations, including air emissions, water effluent and solid waste-handling. We strive to eliminate environmental events that result in exceedances of permit or regulatory limits and work to prevent significant releases of hydrocarbons or chemicals.Compliance with our HSEMS helps ensure our operations minimize their impact on the environment. For more details, see Operating Excellence in this report. The HSEMS creates environmental awareness internally and is the framework for consistently implementing and maintaining an environmental management system and monitoring our environmental performance. Environmental Responsibility and ExcellenceWe have an efficient operating model that helps us drive consistent performance and achieve excellent financial results while also stewarding environmental improvements and standardizing compliance practices as needed.Our business units have internally audited multiyear plans for environmental improvement. Our business unit operations are dynamic, and our “Plan-Do-Assess-Adjust” approach allows our HSEMS to be proactive and drive environmental progress.Our Environmental Steering Teams drive site-level improvement, track and review key metrics, and develop local improvement plans. Those plans are shared with corporate leadership to share best practices. Leadership directs efforts to reduce environmental events and increase work practice consistency. Additionally, peer reviews of air permits, along with active environmental networks, allow subject-matter experts in areas such as air monitoring, leak detection, waste management and water treatment to work across functions. They share best practices and lessons learned to define “what good looks like” and drive sustainable improvement. Business units are also adopting this method.AIR EMISSIONSWe have made significant investments to reduce air emissions. Since 2012, air emissions, including volatile organic compounds (VOCs), from our Refining business unit have decreased by 34.5%. The air research and development program at the Phillips 66 Research Center collaborates with government agencies, trade organizations and academic institutions to provide data that leads to effective rule-making to improve air quality in the communities where we operate.HYDROCARBON SPILLSWe are improving the integrity testing of pipelines and using data analytics to reduce seam cracks. We apply our technical resources and know-how through joint studies with the Pipeline Research Council International and OneBridge Solutions, Inc.In 2020, we were able to recover 100% of the diesel released into a containment dike in our largest-volume hydrocarbon spill of the year. The spill, which accounted for 61% of our hydrocarbon spill volume for 2020, was a result of corrosion on the floor of one of our tanks.WATER MANAGEMENT AND USEWater is an essential resource in our manufacturing facilities and processes. All our refining assets have on-site water treatment systems, and many of them use available brackish, saltwater or non-freshwater, or have industrial reuse processes.Phillips 66 researches and develops best practices for water use to ensure we will have sufficient, sustainable water resources well into the future. We also evaluate new technologies and products to decrease our water footprint and recycle more water, and we partner with research institutions to solve water challenges. For example, we are collaborating with the University of Texas at Austin to investigate new membrane technologies that will allow refineries to separate oil and water more efficiently, improving our ability to recycle the oil and water and reduce waste.  In 2020, we completed a survey of water use, including clean steam condensate from steam generation. Our focus on water use supports our commitment to reducing freshwater withdrawals by our facilities. Our refineries recycled more than 190 million barrels of clean water as steam condensate in 2020 instead of withdrawing water from outside sources to generate steam, which we use in our process.We have developed leading key performance indicators (KPIs) as part of our water use efficiency program for our facilities. Among these water recycling and reuse KPIs are:•	Condensate returned to steam produced •	Condensate recovered vs. consumed in the processIn North America and the United Kingdom, 
we operate 12 biological treatment plants and 
15 pre-treatment facilities. To meet and exceed the strict requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), or industrial pre-treatment permits, we have created improved procedures for what good looks like. It sets higher environmental performance standards, minimizes plant 
upsets, and reduces chemical use and waste generation.Our JET stations across 
Europe have upgraded car 
wash facilities to protect 
the environment. We’ve upgraded eight existing stations and added a new one. We use biodegradable washing chemicals and a smart drying system that reduces energy consumption.Closed Circuit Reverse OsmosisIn 2020, we evaluated a novel water technology called closed-circuit reverse osmosis (CCRO) as a step-change from the conventional reverse osmosis (RO) technology currently operated in most Phillips 66 refineries. In the industrial world, CCRO is known for its ability to recover significantly more clean water than conventional RO, potentially reducing the wasted water stream by up to 75%. The CCRO works like a cooling tower that cycles water until it reaches a set salt content, at which point it blows down the brine while continuing to generate clean water. Three Phillips 66 facilities are now considering implementation of CCRO, including our refinery in drought-prone Borger, Texas, where the technology could reduce reliance on freshwater and shrink the water footprint by treating and recycling wastewater.We regularly engage with wastewater trade associations like the Water Environment Federation (WEF) and the Industrial Wastewater Committee (IWWC) to work with our peers to develop and share best practices. Our wastewater experts volunteer their time to peer-review articles published in Environmental Engineering Science. This journal covers climate change, energy and environment, contaminant fate and transport, environmental sensors, and green technologies.WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLINGAcross all our operations in 2020, we recycled 124,000 tonnes of materials, which leads to over 
1 million tonnes recycled since 2014 companywide. In the realm of information technology and electronics, we reduced 20% of power use at company-operated data centers and recycled more than 171,000 pounds of electronic-waste.We track every raw material used in our manufacturing process at all of our lubricants plants. In 2020, we recycled 999 tonnes of scrap material, including cardboard, bottles, cans, pallets and shrink wrap across our lubricants portfolio.At our refineries, tanks must be cleaned periodically, and we must dispose of the residual product in compliance with strict environmental laws.Phillips 66 has a systematic hazardous waste program with processes and practices executed by trained personnel. Each of our operating sites has environmental professionals whose expertise is supplemented by corporate staff. When possible, we safely send the materials to another facility for reuse as a fuel source. However, for some materials, the best option is incineration.One reuse example is cement manufacturing, which requires mixing limestone with clay or shale and then heating it to 2,700°F. Recycled waste from refinery tank cleanings can be used to fire the cement kilns, keeping it out of landfills. Through recycling at kilns, in 2020, more than 28 million pounds of waste from our sites in California, Illinois, Oklahoma, Texas and New Jersey were used as an alternative fuel source.MAKING INVESTMENTS TO IMPROVE PERFORMANCEBetween 2016 and 2020, we invested more than $5 billion in environmental protection projects and sustaining capital. In 2020, we invested more than $900 million in safety, environmental and reliability projects. Of that total, we spent approximately $500 million for refining reliability, safety and environmental projects.These investments improve our operating standards and procedures, business assurance programs and companywide asset maintenance. We use energy and resources efficiently, invest in research and development, and support habitat and conservation programs. Our investments in technology improve our assets, products and processes so they’re more efficient and capitalize on emerging opportunities as 
the energy market transforms.Borger RefineryBORGER, TX40Machine Health MonitoringA new approach to machine health has enabled Refining and Midstream to use artificial intelligence and machine learning to identify and correct problems earlier, reducing costs and increasing uptime.In addition to leveraging predictive maintenance to reduce failures, Midstream has also used the system to optimize pipeline operation, delivering additional barrels more efficiently and economically.In all, these machine-learning technologies saved the company almost $8 million in 2020. Traditional data analysis is time-intensive, and it can’t solve the problems of unexpected breakdowns. The new low-touch machine learning approach eliminates much of the manual effort involved in data preparation. We use machine health monitoring on major rotating equipment and large compressors at our sites, enabling early detection of mechanical issues before breakdown. We are finding this use of artificial intelligence to be 80% accurate and gives us a 30-day 
lead time. Decades of design and operations data can also be used to perform prescriptive maintenance and optimize asset performance. Historical data can reveal subtle patterns humans can’t see weeks or months before problems are detected with traditional methods. The system then generates automated responses to events that are starting to cause undesirable performance with equipment. Control roomFERNDALE, WA41PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCEGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Upgraded car wash at JET branded marketing siteUNTERPLEICHFELD, GERMANY42Bioreactor Bugs That 
Clean WaterRecently our Humber Refinery in the United Kingdom collaborated with our researchers in Bartlesville, Oklahoma, on an innovative solution that actively removes nitrogen from wastewater in the form of nitrates. Processing crude oil requires water, which needs cleaning before discharge. If nitrates aren’t removed, they can cause excess algae growth in rivers and streams. The cross-functional team discovered that certain organisms would consume nitrates in a low-oxygen environment. When the bugs are exposed to anoxic conditions, they break down nitrates into nitrogen gas, dissipating them safely into the atmosphere. Following lab testing, the theory was put into action and field-tested on-site at one of our two bioreactors in Humber. The bugs were able to remove more than 80% of the nitrogen. Since then, we have optimized the cyclic oxygen system parameters to take the project from a successful test to a reliable and efficient mode of permanent operation. Using this new technology, Humber has decreased its total nitrogen output by more than half, and improvements are ongoing. This allows Humber to meet environmental requirements and realize additional utility cost savings on oxygen and fresh caustic usage. The knowledge and experience gained operating and implementing this technology has also been shared across the Phillips 66 Water Network, an internal team of employees dedicated to sharing water management best practices.>80%of nitrogen removed from wastewater in form of nitratesTetney Tank FarmNORTH LINCOLNSHIRE, UK43PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPOPERATING EXCELLENCE20%reduction in power use at data centers124,000tonnes of materials recycled171,000pounds e-waste recycledBeaumont Dock 4NEDERLAND, TX44REMEDIATED WATER RECYCLING ESTIMATESOur Remediation Management team is responsible for cleaning up water that may have been contaminated. In 2020, the team cleaned up impacted water and recycled about 43 million barrels of water for reuse at over half of our facilities. Reuses included temperature control of cooling towers, emergency response application and outfalls. Fulvous Whistling DuckBOLIVAR FLATS, TXGoing Further With Remediation One of the ways we demonstrate our core values is through our Remediation Management team, whose 
work sometimes begins with an undesirable event — 
a release — yet end positively. The Remediation Management team learns the local geology, hydrology and species to design corrective action specific to the area. Strategies can range from purchasing land to excavating hydrocarbon-impacted soil to removing impacted groundwater. Prior to construction, our Remediation Management team will work with local community stakeholders to design and implement a remediation plan. The team also implements environmental protection measures that are maintained and augmented throughout construction and restoration activities.Often going beyond what is required, we collaborate with local, state and federal government agencies to design a plan to replant native trees and plants that create and support a riparian woodland habitat. This effort can increase the use of the project site by reptiles, amphibians and birds.  Throughout this sustainability report, we detail company HSE policies, systems and numerous programs that promote operating excellence and asset integrity. Phillips 66 has donated property to local park districts to manage wetland and riparian woodland habitats in a manner suitable for the long-term sustainability and diversity of desirable native plants and animal populations. Additionally, we have created temporary drainage swales and seasonal wetlands that increase habitat for native species. Finally, as part of our culture of continuous improvement, the team will bring learnings from the project to groups within the company to prevent future incidents.Our goal is zero accidents 
or incidents but if one occurs, we can be counted on to do the right thing. 45SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
PERFORMANCE DATAGOVERNANCEOPERATING EXCELLENCEENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPBIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATIONOur environmental and sustainability strategy includes enhancing conservation and managing biodiversity risks. Phillips 66 mitigates impacts on biodiversity through planning processes. We address biodiversity conservation during the planning and development of major capital projects by conducting environmental impact analyses, collecting critical environmental data, and implementing mitigation and monitoring programs to reduce impacts and ensure results.The company also promotes biodiversity and conservation in the communities where we operate and market our products, partnering with these communities to address issues that are important to them. We also collaborate with local environmental and conservation organizations and national partners to promote biodiversity and environmental stewardship.We have long-standing partnerships with many national conservation organizations, including the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF), Ducks Unlimited and the Wildlife Habitat Council. We support their efforts in many ways. We donate money and resources, and our employees and interns volunteer their time and make monetary contributions, many of which are matched by the company. Phillips 66 celebrated 25 years of sponsoring the San Bernard National Wildlife Refuge in Texas, and our 2017 donation to the Gulf Coast Initiative continues to help preserve the Texas and Louisiana coasts and wetlands.Green sea turtle 
on the beachWEB-EXCLUSIVE Turtles Get a Lifesaving Cruise 
to Warmer Waters Brazoria National Wildlife RefugeNear FREEPORT, TXWEB-EXCLUSIVE Wetlands and Wildlife: 
Our Conservation Efforts in Action For more details on environmental data, see Performance Data in this report.Protecting Endangered Fish 
in the Brazos River The future of two endangered species of minnows 
native to Texas is brighter.Phillips 66 decommissioned and removed a pipeline and its protective concrete matting located in the Brazos River near Wichita Falls, Texas.Over the past two years, our Midstream business worked with environmental agencies to restore the natural river flow and protect the native Sharpnose and Smalleye shiners, which were listed under the Endangered Species Act in 2014 due to significant population declines.The team decommissioned and then removed a portion of the company’s North Texas Crude Pipeline System and recontoured the riverbed and planted native seeds to maintain the area’s natural landscape.This collaborative effort has helped the two endangered shiners and has improved the overall ecosystem health in the Brazos River, according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, which was a partner in the project. Other partners included local and county officials, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department.Midstream’s river crossing program facilitates mitigation of further impact on fish habitats by replacing conventional pipeline water crossings with directional-boring or horizontal directional-drilling.
This method prevents any river flow disturbance.47PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
OPERATING EXCELLENCEGOVERNANCEPERFORMANCE DATASocial
ResponsibilityTrees for Houston volunteer eventHOUSTON, TX48Our values of safety, honor and commitment mean we work together to support each other 
and strengthen our communities.49PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
OPERATING EXCELLENCEENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPGOVERNANCEOur people are bonded by our vision of providing energy and improving lives and our 
core values of safety, honor and commitment. These principles guide who we are and 
what we stand for.Phillips 66 CultureOUR ENERGY IN ACTIONOur Energy in Action (OEIA) is the company’s shared set of behavioral expectations. It defines how we treat each other, our customers and our communities. Every Phillips 66 employee is expected to live the principles of OEIA as an intentional way to focus on our culture and continuously challenge ourselves to become better. The four actions in the OEIA framework are: •	Work for the greater good •	Create an environment of trust •	Seek different perspectives •	Achieve excellence At Phillips 66, what we do is equally important as how we do it. Each employee’s performance is assessed by quality outcomes and living OEIA daily. These behavioral expectations preserve what makes us great while challenging us to improve for the future. Inclusion and DiversityA diverse workforce and an environment of inclusion expand our ability to collaborate, innovate and differentiate performance. Inclusion and diversity are critical to driving a high-performing organization. At Phillips 66, we lead with inclusion because in its absence diversity cannot thrive. We promote environments free of biases where all employees feel valued, respected and supported. We view diversity as the visible and less-visible differences that shape social identity and drive behaviors — from differences in gender, race, ethnicity, age, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, education and religion. Seeking different perspectives from people with various backgrounds and cultures propels the organization forward and enables us to reach our full potential.Inclusion and diversity at Phillips 66 are anchored in: •	Leader-driven efforts across the organization •	Employees who are each responsible for creating an inclusive culture •	Benefits for every employee, regardless of the dimension of diversity •	Policies, procedures and programsOur 97% retention rate of underrepresented minority and female employees is evidence of our efforts to build a more diverse and inclusive workforce.We also participate in the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering (NACME), the largest provider of scholarships in the U.S. to under-represented minorities in engineering. We have a company liaison to the organization, and a Phillips 66 executive leadership team member serves on its board.EXECUTIVE INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY COUNCIL We are committed to enabling an inclusive and diverse workforce throughout our global operations. Our Executive Inclusion and Diversity Council, chaired by our Chairman and CEO Greg Garland and comprised of the executive leadership team and other senior business leaders, was established in 2019. The council sets and monitors the execution of our company’s inclusion and diversity strategy, including driving performance against key progress metrics.Learn more about our workforce in the Human Capital Management Report.Ferndale RefineryFERNDALE, WA50Global town hall at Sweeny RefineryOLD OCEAN, TX A Best Place to Work for LGBTQ EqualityWe earned a perfect score for 2020 from the Human Rights Campaign Foundation on its Corporate Equality Index (CEI). This is a national benchmarking measure of workplace equality and corporate policies and practices relating to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) employees. Our score was earned by satisfying criteria in nondiscrimination policies across business entities, equitable benefits, supporting an inclusive culture and corporate responsibility.Because of this achievement the Human Rights Campaign Foundation has also recognized us a best place to work for LGBTQ equality. Phillips 66’s progress on the CEI over the last five years is below.100%20%95%70%85%2016201920172018202051PHILLIPS 66  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPERFORMANCE DATASOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
OPERATING EXCELLENCEENVIRONMENTALSTEWARDSHIPGOVERNANCEEnabling Our Workforce to ThriveOur Total Rewards program attracts and retains a talented, diverse workforce. Our programs support the physical, financial, emotional and social well-being of our employees and their families.PHYSICAL WELL-BEINGWe provide competitive and comprehensive medical, dental and vision plans. Additionally, we offer a range of health and fitness resources, including expert second opinion and treatment decision support, health coaching, a free on-site ergonomic assessment program, free on-site biometric screenings and a well-being incentive program.FINANCIAL WELL-BEINGWe support the financial well-being of our employees to help them realize their short- and long-term financial goals. All U.S. employees participate in the company-provided pension plan. In addition, the company provides a dollar-for-dollar match of up to 6% in the 401(k) savings plan. The company also makes a discretionary Success Share contribution of up to 6% of pay once a year. Financial coaching is also available through a third-party vendor at no cost to our employees.EMOTIONAL WELL-BEINGWe support our employees and their families as they navigate everyday challenges and life’s most extraordinary events. We provide access to a suite of resources, including an Employee Assistance Program (EAP), mental health and substance abuse benefits, backup family care and a caregiver assistance program.  We provide eligible employees with paid parental leave of up to two weeks for mothers and fathers after the birth or adoption of a child. 
Birth mothers are eligible for 10 additional weeks of leave at 100% 
of pay.SOCIAL WELL-BEINGWe enhance our employees’ ability to give back to their communities in meaningful and personal ways through our Matching Gift Program, Volunteer Grant Program and our Community Service Policy, which offers eligible employees up to two days per year to volunteer for causes that are important to them.REWARDING EXCELLENCEWe have a pay-for-performance philosophy that continuously raises the bar on what it means to deliver exceptional results. Our employees share in our success through rewards programs, like our annual Variable Cash Incentive Program and Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) Program.  Our median employee received more than $167,000 in total compensation and benefits in 2020, illustrating our commitment to pay competitively 
and reward performance.We have formal special recognition programs to acknowledge exemplary performance or actions. Veterans Day ceremony 
at headquarters HOUSTON, TXHIRING HEROESAs a result of a multiyear program to hire military veterans, we have been able to attract, retain and support veterans in our workforce. We’re proud that veterans account for 9% of our U.S. workforce and 10% of our 2020 new hires in the United States.We are also among the companies listed in Military Times’ 2020 
Best for Vets: Employers rankings.  Keeping History Alive in Old Ocean, TexasPhillips 66 is the caretaker for the gravesite of 
1st Lt. Patrick F. Duggan, a former Union soldier 
and advocate for freed slaves in Texas.Duggan died of yellow fever more than 150 years ago and was buried on property that Phillips Petroleum acquired in 1998. The long-forgotten cemetery at the Sweeny Refinery in Old Ocean, Texas, was cleaned up and fenced. In 2012, a Veterans Administration headstone was installed, and in 2020, the company put up a flagpole to fly the U.S. flag.During Sweeny Hub Phase 2, the project manager researched Duggan’s life and summed it up with a line from a letter sent by a prominent businessman advising officials at the Freedman’s Bureau of Duggan’s death, “He showed a desire to administer equal justice between white and Black.” We learned Duggan was an immigrant who died without heirs. Phillips 66 is proud to keep Duggan’s story alive.1st Lt. Patrick F. Duggan“showed a desire to administer equal justice between white and Black.”52CAREER GROWTHWe offer employees many opportunities for career growth. Among them:•	Onboarding educates new employees on our company vision, values and culture•	“Leading the Vision” and “Leading for Success” programs advance coaching skills for people leaders•	On-demand digital learning and access to LinkedIn Learning offer professional development and expand training opportunities•	Specialized training increases skills in operator roles, engineering, sales and finance•	“Crucial Conversations” training provides communication skills development•	“KATALYST” new-hire training increases employee knowledge of operations, supply and the value chain•	Peer-to-peer teaching and learning expand knowledge on topics such as resilience and
change management