A LETTER FROM OUR CHAIRMAN & CEO TO OUR EMPLOYEES, COMMUNITIES AND INVESTORS, At Phillips 66, our purpose is to make the products that help people go further, go faster, go higher, dream bigger and lead safer, more productive lives. We provide energy and improve lives. We take seriously our long-term responsibilities to our employees, our investors, our neighbors and, ultimately, to a global community. We do well, and we strive to do better. We are on a journey of continuous improvement and ever mindful of the difference we can make together. We are committed to reliable operations and strong environmental stewardship. We make investments in sustainability efforts because we can always do better. We can, and we will. Our business strategy is consistent and successful. We are focused on growth, returns and shareholder distributions, built on a foundation of operating excellence throughout our high-performing organization. We execute our business strategy motivated by a clear set of values: safety, honor and commitment. These values are the essence of our approach to sustainability. Our strategy and execution are working. Last year, 2018, was a year of growth and development for Phillips 66. We remained focused on safety. We began exciting new expansion projects. We worked to evolve our strong company culture to launch a new leadership initiative. We extended our engagement with, and delivered value to, all stakeholders. We achieved our highest annual earnings. Throughout this report, you will see how the people of Phillips 66 are working every day to fulfill our purpose while making progress on our sustainability pillars of operating excellence, environmental stewardship, social responsibility and financial performance. We welcome your feedback. PHILLIPS 66 AT A GLANCE CORPORATE STRATEGY Our corporate strategy is founded on our values of safety, honor and commitment and is structured to enable us to achieve our purpose and vision of providing energy and improving lives. Our strategy assures a sustainable, viable business designed for the long term. Our priorities are clear. The Phillips 66 priorities of growth, returns and distributions are supported by a strong foundation of operating excellence and our high-performing organization. We believe our strategy creates long-term stakeholder value. We made progress executing our key priorities during 2018, achieving numerous milestones and successes. Operating Excellence: Operating with safety, reliability and environmental stewardship while delivering shareholder value. Growth: Enhancing our portfolio by capturing growth opportunities in Midstream and Chemicals. Returns: Improving returns by maximizing earnings from existing assets and investing capital efficiently. Distributions: Achieving financial strength, disciplined capital allocation, dividend growth and share repurchases. High-Performing Organization: Building capability, pursuing excellence and doing the right thing. Our company policies, programs and practices ensure ethical business and good governance. We have more than 14,000 employees and expect everyone to act with integrity, do the right thing and approach all business encounters in an ethical manner, and we incorporate these expectations into our performance management systems. As you will see throughout this report, our business strategy dovetails with our sustainability pillars: OPERATING ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL FINANCIAL EXCELLENCE STEWARDSHIP RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY At Phillips 66, the pillars that guide sustainability and our policies are integral to our strategy and require proactive, consistent, ongoing efforts. We work to mitigate risk to ensure sustainability going forward. These pillars are a commitment to operating excellence throughout our business, environmental stewardship, social responsibility and engagement, and strong economic performance. OPERATING EXCELLENCE We are vigilant as we continuously evaluate our operations to maintain and improve safety and reliability. We consistently implement our robust governance policies and programs to manage risks across our Midstream, Chemicals, Refining, and Marketing and Specialties businesses and our corporate staff functions. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Protecting the environment goes hand in hand with our commitment to operating safely. We make proactive investments in companywide asset maintenance, operating standards and procedures and business assurance programs. Business units and functions consistently follow key standards, procedures and guidelines, which meet and often exceed regulatory requirements. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We report our social responsibility from two perspectives: our workforce and external stakeholder engagement. Enhancing education and career training, listening to stakeholder questions and concerns, and supporting safe communities are the foundation of our social responsibility and engagement. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Our economic strength, in turn, comes from executing our strategy and vision to safely and reliably provide accessible, cost-effective energy and improve the lives of people around the world, and is supported by the other pillars. Spectrum Lubricants Plant AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Refining achieved THREE CONSECUTIVE YEARS OF BEST-IN.CLASS SAFETY PERFORMANCE 28 of our sites have Voluntary Protection Program certification from the Occupational Safety & Health Administration Ponca City Refinery in Oklahoma earned AFPM’s* highest safety award, the DISTINGUISHED SAFETY AWARD, for its outstanding occupational and process safety record Ferndale Refinery in Washington state and the Los Angeles Refinery earned ELITE GOLD AWARDS, AFPM’s* second-highest honor, for facilities with safety performances in the TOP 1% The Billings, Montana, Borger, Texas, and San Francisco-Santa Maria, California, refineries each won ELITE SILVER AWARDS for safety performances in the top 5% The six awards presented to Phillips 66 accounted for nearly half of all refineries recognized by AFPM* ENERGY STAR CERTIFICATIONS awarded to Ferndale Refinery in Washington and Sweeny Refinery in Texas *American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission’s Chairman’s StewardshipAward in the large-company category for a native landscaping initiative that began in California and has since expanded to 15 other states and the U.K. Trinitas Regional Medical Center Humanitarian Award to Bayway Refinery for donating two ambulances and much-needed equipment Houston Business Journal CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY AWARD in the large-corporation category INDUSTRY-LEADING 0.02 PROCESS SAFETY RATE IN REFINING FORBES: AMONG AMERICA’S BEST EMPLOYERS BCA 10 Award from the Business Committee for the Arts for commitment to arts programs such as the Houston Symphony, Broadway in Bartlesville and Mount Baker Theatre in Bellingham, Washington Texas Diversity Conference Top 25 organizations with the highest percentage of women and minorities in executive leadership and boards of directors Nearly half of Phillips 66’s 12 U.S. refineries have earned ENERGY STAR CERTIFICATIONS FROM THE EPA in recent years through voluntary efforts to improve energy efficiency to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Industry leading total recordable rate (TRR) of 0.14 THIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Since Phillips 66 was founded in 2012, we have published annual sustainability metrics and information on our website. More recently, we have enhanced our web reporting and added easy-to-download highlights brochures. This report details our governance, oversight, policies and programs and highlights our sustainability achievements. In short, this report will explain why and how we do what we do. In the pages that follow, we will detail how our company’s purpose comes to life each day and provide you with a look at the progress we are making, give examples of sustainability and share key performance data. Unless otherwise specifically stated, this report covers Phillips 66’s performance in 2018 and focuses on outcomes from our operated assets including our master limited partnership, Phillips 66 Partners. Links here will take you to sustainability reports from our key non-operated joint ventures, Chevron Phillips Chemical Company and DCP Midstream. In addition to describing the investments and resources that we believe are critical to the long-term sustainability of our business, this report also reflects the feedback we have received from our stakeholder engagement programs and processes and our review and discernment of several entities in the field of sustainability ratings. We have assessed our operations against Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) materiality criteria. This report will address the SASB criteria that are most relevant to our business and our stakeholders. We have taken into account the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and our publication, Energy Policy: Risks and Disclosures, is informed by the TCFD framework. We have also considered industry trade association publications, including the American Petroleum Institute’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, the Association of Oil Pipe Lines Corporate Social Risk Management & Reporting, and recommendations from the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA). Phillips 66 also receives guidance on sustainability strategy and reporting as a member of the Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship. CHAPTER 1 GOVERNANCE Rigorous corporate governance contributes positively to long-term shareholder value. Our governance and ethics are strong, and they start at the top. BOARD & MANAGERIAL OVERSIGHT Our board of directors and executive leadership team are committed to ethical business practices, which are premised on our company values. Our board regularly reviews evolving corporate governance best practices, changing regulatory requirements, and feedback from shareholders, and makes changes it believes are in the best interest of Phillips 66 and its shareholders. Our Public Policy Committee, comprised of all board members, advises regarding the company’s compliance with policies and practices related to health, safety and environmental protection and identifies environmental, social and political trends and risks to guide the company’s long-term business objectives and global reputation. The Audit & Finance Committee monitors our enterprise-wide risk management program and our controls, compliance and ethics. The talent and composition of our board of directors augment this governance. Our board is 33% female and almost 90% independent. Every member has served for fewer than 10 years with Phillips 66, which, according to data-backed research published on the Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation website, is a positive factor in managing risk and performance. We also maintain good governance and operations through written policies and auditing programs throughout the company and our supply chain. For ease of reference, many of our key policies and governing documents, including board governance documents and charters, can be found online and at the end of this chapter. These, and many other written procedures and controls, set the standards that guide our actions and ensure the highest levels of responsibility, integrity and legal compliance across our businesses. CULTURE The Phillips 66 culture is founded on our values of safety, honor and commitment. Each employee upholds those values with a sense of integrity and purpose, allowing us to bring to life a different kind of energy. Our culture is sustained by the backgrounds and experiences of our diverse teams, and the behaviors we demonstrate every day. It’s a reflection of who we are, the environment we create, how we work together and the results we deliver.  Our workforce is evolving, and our business is transforming and growing, requiring that we purposefully shape our culture to enable change. After canvassing our employees and learning about how they experience our culture, we developed a set of behaviors that both preserve the best of who we are and challenge us to get better. We will work for the greater good, create an environment of trust, seek different perspectives and always achieve excellence. These simple, practical and intuitive behaviors were developed in 2018, and launched in 2019 as “Our Energy in Action.” Leadership and management across the company are fully engaged and leading adoption of these behaviors. Our Energy in Action We embrace our values as a common bond. Work for the greatergood. Living our values earns us the condence of our business partners, communities and co-workers. We depend on each other to do our jobs. Create an environment of trust. Trusting each other makes us more productive and agile. We create space for possibilities. Seek different perspectives. Championing inclusion enables us to innovate and thrive. We challenge ourselves and never settle. Achieve excellence. Continuing to improve ensures we deliver extraordinary performance. ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT At Phillips 66, we are proud of the work we do and how we do it. We do not compromise our integrity. We recognize that questions can arise in today’s increasingly complex global business environment, so our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Code of Ethics) describes our operating guidelines and ties our company’s values to the way we make decisions. “It is our responsibility to uphold our code – to set a high standard for ourselves and be seen by our peers, customers, business partners, investors and communities as a company that does the right thing, always.” — Greg Garland, Chairman & CEO Our Code of Ethics covers topics including, but not limited to, human rights, conflicts of interest, discrimination, harassment, confidentiality, anti-bribery, anti-boycott, employee grievances, insider trading, competition and fair dealing. All employees, including management, participate in annual code of conduct training, during which they must attest that they will comply with the code. Our senior financial officers adhere to both this and a supplemental code of ethics. Both codes can be found on our website. In 2018, we made an important update to the code, expanding it to include human rights and our stance against human trafficking. We recognize and respect the dignity of all human beings. We believe business has a role in promoting respect for human rights throughout the world. We embrace the right of all people to live their lives free from social, political or economic discrimination or abuse. Our human rights position is informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. EVERY PHILLIPS 66 EMPLOYEE IS EXPECTED TO • Comply with all laws, regulations and company policies; • Maintain ethical behavior; • Report any suspected misconduct, illegal activity, fraud, abuse of company assets or other violation of ethical standards; and • Annually submit an ethics compliance certification. Lake Charles Refinery Because our core value of honor means always doing the right thing, we choose business partners objectively and fairly, and act with honesty in all business dealings with them. In turn, our business partners are expected to work with Phillips 66 employees in a way that allows them to uphold our standards. Business partners and suppliers who enter into contracts with Phillips 66 are not only expected to comply with contractual obligations, but also with the expectations laid out in our Business Partner Principles of Conduct. Grievance or Ethics Toll-free Line: 855.318.5390 WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAMS Employees, suppliers and customers are all empowered, without fear of punishment, to raise questions or concerns about our operations and business practices, and are expected to report behaviors that they believe violate the company Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. Various federal and state laws provide legal protection to certain types of whistleblowers. Additionally, Phillips 66 has a policy of non-retaliation. This helps foster an ethical workplace and a culture of integrity. 181 ALLEGATIONS The Ethics Office telephone and web-based HelpLine are RECEIVED confidential and operated by a third party. Both are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year and are staffed by representatives fluent in many languages. Employees, contractors, suppliers and community members can access the HelpLine toll free from any location around the world, or they can file a report online. Employees and others making reports 100% are encouraged to identify themselves, but they may choose to remain anonymous. Reports are entered directly onto an OF ALLEGATIONS independent secure server, are not traced, and are shared only INVESTIGATED with the specific personnel designated to handle the issue. Any potential violation of our Code of Conduct or other company policies is brought to the attention of the Global Compliance and Ethics Office and handled through our reporting process. This includes all potential violations reported 56% through HelpLine calls, online reports and in-person accounts. OF REPORTERS All allegations are investigated, and appropriate action is taken VOLUNTARILY based on the findings. Issues involving a violation of regulation, law or the Code of Conduct are reported to the board of IDENTIFY THEMSELVES directors’ Audit & Finance Committee. Led by our Chief Compliance Officer, our Compliance and Ethics Office personnel are trained on conducting investigations into potential violations. Phillips 66 Human Resources professionals also are trained to assist or lead investigations. One indicator of confidence in the independence and integrity of our ethics program is a decline in the percentage of incidents reported anonymously. The majority of people reporting concerns feel comfortable in identifying themselves, with only 44% choosing to remain anonymous. We are committed to the highest ethical standards because we want people in our communities and elsewhere to know they can count on us. POLITICAL AND PUBLIC POLICY PROCESS Phillips 66 participates in the legislative and regulatory policy development and political process legally, responsibly and ethically to serve the best interests of our shareholders, workforce and other stakeholders. Our operations are highly regulated and are affected by actions at many levels of government. Our public policy activities include education and advocacy efforts at the local, state and federal government levels. We are committed to complying with all applicable state and federal rules pertaining to lobbying and disclosures. Our Political Giving and Activity Policy governs our actions. Make a Splash water safety campaign POLICY LIST Our values and purpose are demonstrated in everything we do. Below are links to company information and key materials that guide our business every day, along with other relevant reports. Wood River Refinery in Roxana GOVERNANCE: • Audit & Finance Committee Charter • Code of Business Ethics & Conduct • Code of Ethics for the Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers • Company Bylaws • Corporate Governance Guidelines • Executive Committee Charter • Human Resources & Compensation Committee Charter • Nominating & Governance Committee Charter • Public Policy Committee Charter POLICIES & POSITIONS: • Business Partner Principles of Conduct • Energy Policy Risks and Disclosure • Equal Employment Opportunity Position • Health Safety & Environment Policy • Health Safety & Environmental Management System • Human Rights Position • Philanthropy Grant Application Process • Phillips 66 Employment Benefits • Phillips 66 U.K. Modern Slavery Statement • Political Giving and Activity Policy • Supplier Diversity Position • Supply Chain Transparency • Workplace Diversity Position EDUCATION AND AWARENESS: • 2018 Annual Report • 2018 Fact Sheet • 2019 Proxy Statement • Gray Oak Pipeline • News Releases • Phillips 66 Partners LP • Pipeline Awareness & Safety 811 • Safety Data Sheets • Securities & Exchange Commission Filings OTHER REPORTS: • Chevron Phillips Chemical Company Sustainability Report • DCP Midstream Safety & Sustainability 