Chapter 6Landscape StewardshipIn addition to Pioneer’s commitment to achieve compliance with 
regulatory requirements, Pioneer goes beyond compliance to 
understand our environmental impact and minimize our operational 
footprint. Through research, technology, industry partnerships, 
operational best practices and strategic planning, Pioneer is a leader in proactive and voluntary efforts to reduce air emissions and spills, minimize waste, and protect soil, groundwater, and indigenous 
protected wildlife resources.  Biodiversity Conservation “Avoidance” is the best description of our approach and overall 
strategy for landscape and biodiversity conservation during the 
development of drilling locations, well pads and associated tank 
batteries. We refrain from operating in protected areas, wherever 
feasible. Pioneer teams engage with national, state and local 
government organizations and regulators; partner with researchers, consultants and universities; and source and explore new technologies to apply progressive solutions to protect habitats and species.  For years, we have taken stewardship lessons learned from our former operations in Alaska, Colorado, Canada and the Gulf of Mexico, 
applying them to the Permian Basin. We use our broad industry 
experience to provide environmentally responsible solutions. Best Practices Pioneer employs a four-tired mitigation hierarchy approach:1.AVOID2.MINIMIZE3.RESTORE4.OFFSETLANDSCAPE STEWARDSHIP41Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial ValueLANDSCAPE STEWARDSHIP42Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE CultureBiodiversity Performance 		Avoidance HighlightsMinimization HighlightsEndangered Species — Although endangered species 
could potentially affect our ability to operate in certain 
areas, Pioneer continues to protect threatened and 
endangered species by:  • Utilizing candidate conservation agreements with 
    assurances for threatened and endangered species 
    protection like the lesser prairie chicken  • Prioritizing sand sourcing from operators outside 
   of known areas of dunes sagebrush lizard habitat  • Working to avoid surface water resources PWM Wildlife Mitigation Planning — PWM uses several measures to protect wildlife, including siting decisions, preconstruction 
reconnaissance and wildlife impact avoidance measures. PWM’s Wildlife Mitigation Plan outlines additional mitigation actions 
to support its overall mission to drive continued environmental stewardship. Under the mitigation plan, observations made in the 
field drive corrective measures, including the training to recognize wildlife issues and respond appropriately. Wildlife observations during inspections are logged to monitor wildlife presence and changes over time. All workers and contractors are trained in, or informed of, the following:    • Limiting or eliminating unnecessary lights   • PWM-established rules on speed limits and designated smoking areas   • The Wildlife Mitigation Plan allows our employees to use an adaptive 
     management approach to make informed decisions on wildlife observations.    • Identification of species of interest   • Who to contact when a wildlife issue is observed   • Prohibited actions, including the harassment/     collection of any wildlife Reducing Our Footprint — As Pioneer operations grow in the Permian Basin, our sustainable development practices allow us to drill 
many more wells on the same well pad than we previously drilled. Multi-well pads present opportunities to mitigate risks and impacts,
while supporting our overall ESG strategies and goals. Needing only one quarter of an acre per well translates to, in some cases, more 
than 80% reduction in surface impacts. Decreasing the area of impact by pad construction and reducing the need for additional 
roadways limits surface impact and habitat fragmentation. Similar to pad sizes, as lateral lengths extend, the number of wells 
required to capture the resource decreases. We are studying how to achieve an optimal number of wells per pad to accommodate 
needed well spacing, reduce our surface impact and boost capital efficiencies. There are numerous benefits to growing the number 
of well pads drilled on one pad.  Spills, habitat risk, truck traffic, waste generated and transfer decreases.As the number of wells drilled on each individual well pad developed increases...Sagebrush LizardLANDSCAPE STEWARDSHIP43Our Reporting ApproachWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial ValueBiodiversity Performance 		Restoration HighlightsMinimization HighlightsPad Reclamation — Continued our pad reclamation program that evaluates our horizontal well site 
inventory to find eligible pad downsizing opportunities based on operational criteria. Excess pad 
material is harvested and reused in new site construction, offsetting that volume demand from new 
material sourcing, which has resulted in more than 52 acres being returned to landowners and more
than 72,000 tons of material reused.  Native Seed — We are working with Texas A&M Kingsville to collect ecologically representative 
native seeds from large areas where we are the surface landowner. We have identified four distinct 
native seed mixes that would be applicable across Pioneer’s operational area. Our drilling and 
construction groups utilize native seed mixes to reclaim surface land where possible. Native 
seeding offers many ecological benefits to pollinators and West Texas grassland species. The multi-well pad approach allows us to maximize the resource potential beneath the surface, while decreasing the magnitude of surface risks and impacts such as these:Offsetting HighlightsConservation Agreement — Pioneer is a founding contributor of the Candidate Conservation 
Agreement with Assurances (CCAA) for the pre-listing conservation of the lesser prairie chicken. CCAAs are formal, voluntary agreements between the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and one or more parties. In the case of the lesser prairie chicken, the Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies (WAFWA), an association of 24 U.S. States and Canadian Provinces, formed a partnership with the five lesser prairie chicken states’ (Texas, New Mexico, Colorado, Kansas and Oklahoma) respective wildlife management agencies to formalize and fund a CCAA, over $65 million in initial conservation enrollments from oil and gas industry members who adopted the CCAA. By working under the CCAA, Pioneer can select locations that minimize or avoid impact. In areas where we 
cannot avoid habitat impact, the CCAA program allows Pioneer to generate habitat impact offsets while maintaining our development plans and promoting lesser prairie chicken conservation. For additional information see Range-wide Oil and Gas Candidate Conservation Agreement with 
Assurances for the Lesser Prairie-Chicken 2020 Annual Report. LANDSCAPE STEWARDSHIP44Our Reporting ApproachWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Well PluggingAs older wells become less economic, oil and gas operators must decide how to dispose of those assets. 
Pioneer chooses to retire legacy facilities from service as opposed to selling them to another operator.  
To us, this means prioritizing stewardship. Pioneer prides itself in designing and constructing facilities that minimize environmental impact. However, 
facility engineering has improved with time and experience, and older wells and tank batteries pre-date 
many modern control measures. Our operating and maintenance programs ensure that legacy facilities 
function with environmental integrity, but if they are sold instead of retired, we cannot ensure that stringent
management practices will remain in place.  Since 2019, Pioneer has plugged over 1,400 wells. Our plugging program eliminates the potential for these wells to become non-compliant and delinquent or part of the state orphan well program. This best practice reduces the risk of spills that could lead to soil and water contamination and allows us to return the land to landowners. Potential GHG and non-GHG emissions are limited by disconnection and removal of wellhead equipment and accompanying support facilities, such as tank batteries.  Funded by taxpayer dollars, the State of Texas’ orphan well program permanently closes non-compliant wells 
that are no longer economic and pose a health risk to the community at large. Non-compliant wells are defined by the Texas Railroad Commission as wells that “have been inactive a minimum of 12 months and the responsible 
operator’s Organizational Report (Form P-5) has been delinquent for greater than 12 months.” In fiscal year 
2021, the Texas Railroad Commission reported they plugged 1,453 orphaned wells. Surface Reclamation Pioneer is committed to minimizing and reclaiming surface areas impacted by our operations. After removing 
well production equipment, we work to return locations back to landowners.  Achievements    • Reduced our overall footprint and risk of spills and environmental exposure in the field by completely removing 
     surface equipment from well sites, including pumping units, flowlines and other production equipment.    • Removal of flowlines eliminated the potential for fluid releases and the poly material was recycled.  LANDSCAPE STEWARDSHIP45Our Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Waste Management Waste reduction is an important goal for our company. Pioneer strives to minimize all wastes. We continue to improve how we proactively manage our waste and strive to minimize waste by eliminating 
or reducing identified waste streams, including hazardous waste. 
In addition, we continue to improve reuse and recycling in our 
operations and strive to decrease disposal in landfills.  In 2021, Pioneer implemented a waste tracking system that offers a detailed examination of the waste generated by our operations. Multidisciplinary workgroups set out to identify companywide waste streams, quantify waste and develop processes for consolidation, automation and reporting.  This implementation effort promoted communication among all business units, formalized a companywide review of all waste streams and led to strategic waste-minimization planning, and target-setting discussions.  Best Practices We strive to minimize hazardous waste generation at our facilities through:   • Tracking waste— Implemented a companywide electronic waste 
     management system to streamline waste tracking and processing 
     of wastes.   • Supplier coordination— Strategic contracts are being utilized with 
    chemical providers to ensure products are purchased on an “as-
    used” basis ensuring the chemical provider maintains possession of 
    unused chemicals and subsequent waste management responsibility.   • Chemical management programs— For products and chemicals 
    purchased wholesale, efforts are made by our staff of environmental 
    specialists to coordinate with chemical providers on “intended use,” 
    along with the reuse or recycling of unused chemicals.  
  • Waste minimization plans— We continually evaluate waste 
     minimization process improvements. Our Environmental 
     department waste specialists work in partnership with each 
     business unit to manage and maintain proper waste management 
     activities, including, training, waste reporting, waste minimization 
     and reuse plans, waste characterization, transportation, and 
     disposal manifesting. Waste Management Performance   • In 2021, Pioneer generated no hazardous waste in our operations1.    • We continue to minimize our annual hazardous waste generation 
     and maintain a Very Small Quantity Generator status as defined 
     by the EPA. We are also working to bring the Parsley and 
     DoublePoint assets to this same status, which requires us to: 	- Generate less than 1,000 kilograms (1 ton) per month of 			   hazardous waste  	 - Identify hazardous waste generated 	 - Not accumulate more than 1,000 kilograms (1 ton) of 
	   hazardous waste at any time 	 - Maintain proper handling and disposal   • In 2021, Pioneer recycled more than 6 million pounds of solid 
     waste, an 254% increase in recycling from last year. Pioneer’s 
     recycling program has grown in scope from recycling only metal 
     to recycling both metal and poly materials, as part of our continuous 
     effort to improve our waste-recycling program.    • Chemical Use – We have reduced amount of chemicals we use 
     in our hydraulic fracturing and are using fewer individual chemicals. 
     Using less chemicals significantly improves logistical management 
     and reduces opportunities for chemical-handling incidents to      occur. Innovations in well completion fluid designs have also 
     positively impacted our freshwater reduction efforts. Another 
     example of using improved technologies to gain efficiencies is 
     our upgraded drill rig shakers. Shakers are a drill rig system 
     component that removes the solid rock cuttings from the liquids    
     extracted from the well. These new and high-grade shakers gain 
     efficiencies in circulation and fluid retention, which means we 
     recycle more fluid throughout the drilling process, providing      notable capital savings. 
  • Material Reuse— In 2021, Pioneer partnered with a third party 
     to recycle scrap poly pipe made of high.density polyethylene 
     (HDPE). HDPE is known as Plastic #2 within the U.S. recycling 
     system and is used to manufacture various products such as 
     recycling containers, dog houses, shampoo bottles, pens and other 
     household goods. Last year, Pioneer contributed more than 6 million      pounds of HDPE poly pipe and metal that would have otherwise 
     been disposed of in a landfill.  1 Excludes hazardous waste generated by Parsley and DoublePoint prior to acquisition of     
  those entities by Pioneer and properly disposed of by Pioneer as one-time shipments. Additional metrics are provided in our Sustainability Performance Data Table. Chemical Data AutomationContinuing the relentless quest of finding ways to further optimize chemical 
treatments and improve logistical management, Pioneer conducted a blockchain trial in 2021 to automate verification of chemical deliveries for batch and continuous well treatment. The goal of the trial was to validate delivery events in an immutable distributed ledger and to provide traceability and transactional certainty of chemical data measurement and management for ESG performance. The trial resulted in extreme automation of service to submission and verification of a delivery to near real time metrics. It accelerated operationalizing data collected by smart pumps, Field IOT and GPS sensors to drive supplier accountability. Pioneer is now implementing the blockchain solution across all of its field locations to verify chemical deliveries and is poised to expand the solution in other areas where increased trust, accuracy and transparency of supply chains will provide notable material and capital savings. IdentifyQuantifyConsolidateAutomateReportLANDSCAPE STEWARDSHIP46Our Reporting ApproachWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Spill Management Pioneer believes all spills are preventable. Pioneer designs, builds and operates our facilities and equipment with spill prevention in mind. Our HSE Commitment, formalized in our HSE Policy, shows how we take a proactive approach to manage spill-related risks and reduce spills. We invest in containment equipment, conduct inspections and remote monitoring, and comply with spill preparedness and response regulations. We require the internal reporting of all environmental incidents, including spills. 

Our compliance specialists, operations partners and HSE committees are dedicated to studying past incident findings and identifying operational or engineering safeguards that could aid in preventing future incidents. Best Practices Pioneer monitors performance and develops measures to prevent 
future incidents. We reduce spills throughout our operations by 
striving to:   • Improve understanding of spill causes and establish processes      for reducing the number and volumes    • Promote actions that reduce our environmental footprint   • Instill incident management as a central principle for working 
     at Pioneer We implement these objectives by:   • Actively managing incidents consistently across the company   • Monitoring environmental incident metrics   • Setting reduction targets   • Communicating successful solutions and practices throughout 
     the company   • Developing guidelines/procedures for proactive prevention   • Providing monthly briefings of high-risk environmental incidents, 
     root cause investigation findings and recommendations to the HSEC 
The acquisition of Parsley and DoublePoint presented spill performance 
challenges in 2021. Differences in facility design, construction, and operational practices relative to our existing assets, directly affected the environmental spill risks associated with the acquired assets. 
Pioneer has integrated the majority of the acquired assets and is 
continuing to upgrade the remaining facilities to Pioneer specifications, supporting our spill reductions efforts. Our compliance specialists, operations partners and HSE committees are dedicated to studying past incident findings and identifying operational or engineering safeguards that could aid in preventing 
future incidents. Pioneer monitors performance and develops 
measures to prevent future incidents.  Pioneer contains spills when they do occur by:   • Requiring the internal reporting of all environmental incidents, 
     including spills   • Recovering spill volumes, where possible, through short-term spill          response activities that meet or exceed regulatory requirements    • Investing in containment equipment   • Complying with spill preparedness and response regulations Spill Management Performance In the event of a spill, spilled volumes are recovered, where possible, 
through short-term spill response activities that meet or exceed 
regulatory requirements. Since 2020, the number of hydrocarbon spills within our operations has increased as we transitioned our 
acquired assets into Pioneer operations, combined with higher 
levels of COVID-19 activity.We have worked diligently to bring the acquired Parsley and 
DoublePoint facilities up to Pioneer’s high operating standards, which contributed to improved spill performance in the second half of 2021. Not all of the design differences between the acquired facilities and 
our existing assets were negative. Both Parsley and DoublePoint had a larger percentage of facilities equipped with fully aligned containment systems around production tanks. This contributed to an increase in the occurrence of spill volumes captured within lined containment.  In the fourth quarter of 2021, we changed how spills are recorded to provide clearer visibility into our impact to habitat outside of our 
facilities. Category selection was formerly based on the worst outcome. 
If even a small percentage of the spill left the facility, the entire release was categorized as having impacted habitat. This resulted in an exaggeration of the percentage of our spill volumes released to habitat. Effective December 16, 2021, gross spill volumes are allocated by percentage to four degrees of containment: lined containment, unlined containment, facility pad outside of containment, or habitat. When we report 2022 spill metrics, we will be able to provide more accurate calculations of volumes released to habitat. These reporting improvements also provide us with an opportunity to better understand the effectiveness of spill control methods and take action to reduce environmental risk. Spill metrics are provided in the Sustainability Performance Data Table. LANDSCAPE STEWARDSHIP47Our Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value