Chapter 8Social ValueWe deliver our strong operational and financial results in a safe, environmentally sound and socially responsible way through our most important asset – our people. We respect one another and the 
communities we call home through a culture dedicated to diversity, inclusiveness and unique perspectives. We promote inclusion and diversity throughout the company to bring diverse perspectives, 
lived experiences, new ideas and genuine collaboration and teamwork to our problem-solving and decision-making processes. Pioneer communicates transparently, authentically and respectfully among all stakeholders, both internal and external, while being sensitive to unique situations, communications styles and platforms..By taking a personal approach with our employee and community stakeholders, we build strong relationships and an environment of transparency, respect and trust, which is reflected in our business goals and results. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) From the time of our founding, and decades before the popular 
corporate catch phrases of today, Pioneer has championed the 
importance of respect. The word became the inspiration for our 
RESPECT values that encompass our beliefs for fostering a 
diverse, equitable and inclusive workforce. Diversity in our workforce unquestionably fuels our continued business success and innovation while also representing the communities we proudly call home.    Many companies talk about diversity and inclusion abstractly. At Pioneer, it’s ingrained within our culture and backed by actionable and bold goals, accountability, and philanthropic and service initiatives. Here, embracing diversity represents a way of life; the work to benchmark and improve our efforts never stops. Our intention is for our employees across the company to see, feel and hear our values every day. As a company headquartered and solely operating in one of the largest and most diverse states in the nation, Pioneer leaders are both 
committed to and incentivized for ensuring our workforce and 
management team are reflective of Texas and America as a whole. Our DEI program cultivates an environment where people feel 
included, respected and valued. An inclusive workplace enables us 
to embrace diverse backgrounds and perspectives to attract, retain and develop the best talent. Through grassroots interest, leadership support, and robust training and development programs, our employees are embracing differences and actively learning how to better 
leverage different schools of thought to achieve business results. 
SOCIAL VALUE53Our Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		DEI Targets  Pioneer believes DEI values and commitments must be backed by measurable action and accountability. To that end, our DEI goals are embedded into our overall governance standards and executive compensation plans. To demonstrate Pioneer’s commitment to DEI initiatives and empower representation in all areas of the company, 
we have:    • Set a goal to have at least 50% diversity representation within our 
     Management Committee.   • Required each Management Committee member to identify 
     annual DEI goals with deliverable DEI metrics and leading 
     indicators within their area of responsibility.   • Established a goal for all Management Committee members 
     to complete DEI training.   • Released a Supplier Code of Conduct and Sustainable 
     Procurement Commitment to all suppliers, available on PXD.com   • Completed the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality 
     Index to benchmark DEI efforts and create action plans to align 
     with best practices; Pioneer received a score of 90 out of 100 on  
     four key pillars: 	- Nondiscrimination policies across business entities 	- Equitable benefits for LGBTQ workers and their families 	- Supporting an inclusive culture 	- Corporate social responsibility To aid in our development of future programs and targets, we 
participated in the DiversityInc Top 50 competition and will develop action plans based on the resulting report card. The report card will focus on six key areas of diversity and inclusion management:   • Human Capital Diversity Metrics   • Leadership Accountability   • Talent Programs   • Workplace Practices    • Supplier Diversity    • Philanthropy Currently 46% of our executive management team is diverse. With the addition of three new Directors to our Board, Lori Billingsley, 
Maria Dreyfus, and Jacinto Hernandez our aggregate Board diversity has increased to 46%. We expect every leader in the organization 
to foster an environment that supports our RESPECT values and advances the company’s commitment to DEI, and the development of individual DEI scorecards will tie these efforts to our committee members’ performance goals.  The executive DEI program was developed in partnership with third-party vendors and will build on our previous trainings offered—Appreciating Differences and Unconscious Bias. Executives will 
focus on inclusive leadership, communication and cultivating an 
inclusive culture. Diversity Equity & Inclusion Training  As our program continues to evolve, we added a required Unconscious Bias training for all employees to build on the previous Diversity and Inclusion trainings offered. With 92% of all employees trained, we will continue to evolve our training to encourage growth and inclusion in the workplace.  Management DEI Scorecards In 2021, we developed an internal DEI Scorecard to give each 
Management Committee member visibility into their department’s demographics, as well as insight into leading indicators that impact the future workforce. These DEI Scorecards build on previously 
implemented visibility campaigns and include metrics that enable 
our executives to meet their three-year road map goals. Pioneer is committed to transparency around diversity and inclusion. As part 
of that effort, we detail our progress in our Sustainability Performance Data Table. 
Pioneer Demographics In 2021, women represented 27% of our workforce, including 33% at the senior executive level. The overall proportion of racially diverse employees has decreased since 2019 due to the sale of Pioneer’s integrated service companies; however, we continue to achieve steady growth within both senior executive representation, with our executive management team being currently 46% diverse. Pioneer actively leverages our Campus Recruiting program to diversify our pipeline of incoming talent. The Management Committee regularly reviews the demographics of our employees with a purposeful intention to advance diversity at all levels of the company. Increased awareness of the demographic trends throughout the talent life cycle can give us insight into the future of the company and ensure we are able to meet our DEI goals.      SOCIAL VALUE54Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		SOCIAL VALUE55Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Equal Opportunity Employment  Our Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy provides equal employment opportunity for all qualified employees and applicants without regard to race, color, sexual orientation, gender or gender identity, religion, national origin, disability, veteran status, age, marital status, pregnancy, genetic information, or any other legally protected status. Pioneer does not and will not discriminate against any qualified employee or applicant based on any of the aforementioned factors. Pioneer included sexual orientation and gender identity in our 
antiharassment and discrimination labor practices ahead of the 2020 U.S. Supreme Court ruling, which upheld those protections within 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964. We are also a proud member of the Business Coalition for The Equality Act. The Coalition includes 
leading U.S. employers that support the Equality Act, federal 
legislation that would provide the same basic protections to LGBTQ+ people as are provided to other protected groups under federal law. 
Investing in Our People Pioneer’s foundation and long-term success is built on the tenets of honesty, mutual respect, accountability, innovation, inclusion and communication. We celebrate our people as unique human beings with vibrant perspectives, experiences, identities and contributions.  These qualities manifest through our RESPECT values and we are focused on proactively fostering a welcoming, inclusive and supportive environment for every employee, business partner and community member. We empower our employees to thrive and bring their entire selves to work, which we believe helps support our mission to provide affordable, reliable energy to both domestic and global markets.  Employee Engagement At Pioneer, we believe in transparency – and it starts at the top. Giving employees a voice is paramount to supporting our thriving and resilient culture. Our annual engagement survey provides a view into our overall organizational health. Pioneer’s new survey administrator provides global, multi-industry benchmarks. Despite the many 
challenges the pandemic presented in 2021, Pioneer scored in the top quartile of engagement globally among companies using the same platform, with 17 of 25 category scores ranking above the platform’s global benchmarks.  In 2021, Pioneer received a high response rate of 76%, and more 
than 4,000 comments from employees. In addition to Employee Engagement, we also consistently score highly in: 
While we like to celebrate our successes, our engagement survey also affords us the opportunity to focus on areas that need attention. One area of focus identified in our survey responses was the work schedules for some of our field employees. Management quickly acted and redesigned schedules to more closely align with the feedback received through the survey. Another area of improvement centered around career development for employees in our data science fields. As employees noted in the survey, the skillsets of our various data 
analytics roles continue to evolve with the advancement and adoption 
of new capabilities in the artificial intelligence and data science arenas. In response, we have developed an enhanced career path for these roles, ensuring Pioneer attracts and retains the high-level talent that will support company objectives. Managers developed action plans to improve these and other areas of opportunity for improvement throughout the company.   ““My favorite part about Pioneer is they 
encourage me to be myself. I do my 
makeup funny, and I wear funny shoes, I like 
to be loud, and I like colors in my office. 
I get almost praised for it, because sometimes 
I think oil and gas has that ‘good ol’ boy’ 
reputation and now people are coming in 
and brightening things up a little bit.The moment we started the process to get 
onboarded, it was great. This has been one of the greatest companies I’ve ever worked for.”– Dillon Tranum, Production Operator, Midland, Texas ”– Megan Delmonico, Operations Engineer, Midland, Texas Benefits  •  Rewards  •  Corporate Citizenship SOCIAL VALUE56Our Reporting ApproachWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Employee Resource Groups Our companywide DEI program, OnePioneer, is led and self-governed by a diverse representation of our employees. Once split into individual resource groups, it became evident our members cared for communities different from their own, and we recognized true change can be accomplished when we band together. As a result, we joined the groups to create OnePioneer. They operate as a singular team to advance DEI initiatives throughout the company. Under the OnePioneer umbrella, we continue to provide a space for employees to come together. OnePioneer proudly supports these networks:    • Different Abilities Network    • Early Career Employees    • Military Network  OnePioneer also has dedicated senior leaders who actively support the group’s mission. Despite 
challenges introduced by the pandemic, OnePioneer continued to fulfill its core objectives. A few 
examples of this include: 
  • Philanthropy: Toys for Tots, Afghanistan Refugee Clothing Drive   • Cultural Awareness: Taste of Pioneer, Diwali Celebration   • Development: Rise of ESG Event, Book Clubs, Facilitated Mentor Program   • Engagement and Belonging: Field Appreciation, Trunk or Treat, Employee Spotlight Series“Something that surprised me about working with Pioneer is the 
people. When I first came, I was a little bit nervous that the oil and gas industry was a group of rough and tumble people, and I’ve found a home here. I’ve found a family atmosphere, and I really enjoy it.”– Dillon Tranum, Production Operator, Midland, Texas OnePioneer’s mission is to champion our culture of RESPECT and community stewardship by fostering an inclusive and productive environment that visibly supports and actively empowers all employees to thrive through education, recruitment, advocacy, wellness, development, mentorship, networking and philanthropy. More than 30 percent of our employees are members of OnePioneer.  OnePioneer Principles   • We listen, show up and speak up as allies for people and communities that are different from our own.   • We advocate for an accessible and inclusive workplace that supports employees with permanent and 
     temporary disabilities.    • We embolden our employees to bring their whole selves to work regardless of sexual orientation, 
     gender identity or gender expression.    • We support veterans, active service members and their families.    • We appreciate and celebrate individuals from all cultural backgrounds and foster a culture of inclusion
     through promoting a constructive understanding of our differences and potential biases.    • We connect employees through mentorship, networking and shared learning to adapt and succeed at 
     every stage of their careers in a rapidly changing workplace.    • We promote equality through the development, retention and advancement of women and people of 
     color at Pioneer. • Multicultural Network  • Parent and Caregivers Network  • PRIDE+ Network • Women’s Network  SOCIAL VALUE57Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Mentorship can provide significant opportunities for growth and development. In partnership with our Human Resources department, OnePioneer developed a mentorship program designed to meet the needs of employees and foster connections throughout Pioneer. OnePioneer mentoring enables employees from across our locations to connect with each other around areas of common interest, including:  • Career Growth   • Public Speaking/Leadership Presence   • Networking   • Philanthropic Involvement    • The Future of Oil and Gas These groups meet monthly and include employees from various departments and locations. Employee Recognition Pioneer’s WELL Done employee appreciation program is driven 
by both peer-to-peer and manager recognition. WELL Done allows Pioneer employees to recognize and reward their colleagues for 
outstanding work, especially in relation to our RESPECT values.  Total Rewards  Pioneer annually reviews total compensation for all employees with the goal of providing a highly competitive compensation package, adjusting for market conditions, and attracting and retaining a highly skilled workforce.  Pay for Performance Each Pioneer employee can influence their take-home pay through their performance. Our employees participate in:    • Cash incentive plans that consider both individual and company 
     performance    • Traditional bonus plans heavily influenced by individual 
     performance    • Variable compensation plans denominated in company stock, 
    designed to align the interest of employees with stockholders  Two recent changes in 2021 include adopting a hybrid remote work program and adding Juneteenth as a paid company holiday. Due to our competitive pay and benefits, culture of RESPECT and DEI efforts, our voluntary turnover rate remains below 5% in 2020 and 2021.“Best-in-class BenefitsWorking for Pioneer has meant the world 
to me and my family. It helped me build my 
family – it helped me become the man that I 
am today. I’ve been mentored and taught so many things by the people that have been here at Pioneer, whether they are gone or still here, and now I’m learning from the newer generation.Peer- and Industry-competitive Offerings Our employees are our greatest asset, and we encourage them to take full advantage of the array of competitive benefits and programs we offer. To ensure we attract and retain top talent, we set ourselves apart from other employers by carefully selecting an outstanding benefits package:    • Comprehensive medical, dental and vision plans    • Company-provided life insurance, short-term disability and      long-term disability     • Subsidized onsite daycare   • Paid maternity and paternity leave 	- Twelve weeks of 100% pay for primary caregiver  	- Ten days of 100% pay for secondary caregiver  • Flexible work schedule and compressed work week  • Generous paid-time-off program  • Dynamic 401(k) program ”– Roderick Strambler, Senior Surface Landman, Midland, Texas  “I feel really supported here at Pioneer 
being able to juggle mom-ness and work. 
I’ve taken maternity leave three times while 
I’ve been here, but I’ve still done huge projects with meaningful change, and I haven’t felt 
like I’ve had to choose between my family 
and my career at Pioneer. I think that speaks volumes to how Pioneer thinks about all 
of its people and the support we get.”– Allie Foster, Accounting Manager, Irving, Texas SOCIAL VALUE58Our Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		A Culture of Health and Wellness  
  • Health Centers: Pioneer has two on-site health clinics that provide 
     healthcare for both employees and their families who are covered 
     by our medical plan. Medical services provided include preventative 
     screenings, sick visits, routine check-ups, chronic condition 
     management and urgent care needs.    • Daycare Centers: Employees in our Las Colinas and Midland 
     Corporate Offices have the convenience of an onsite childcare 
     center that offers early childhood programs for their children 
     ranging from infants to kindergarten prep.   • Fitness Centers: All Pioneer office locations have on-site fitness 
     centers for employee use.  Focus on Mental Health  The pandemic put a spotlight on the mental health crisis in a new and immediate way. The stress, anxiety, isolation and uncertainty of this time raised awareness and pushed all of us to have the honest 
conversations we always needed to have about mental health. Pioneer has always been proud to provide our employees and their families with a multi-channel offering of resources to assist with achieving their optimal mental health and well-being.  Feel 1 Mil  In 2019, Pioneer launched Feel 1 Mil, a total mind and body wellness program. Feel 1 Mil offers several opportunities to nurture mind, body and spirit, allowing employees to prioritize their health and wellness. Employees and their families have access to our online wellness portal to track health and wellness goals. With services such as Teledoc, health bots, and biometric screenings, employees have around-the-clock choices for preventative, mental and acute medical care. 


People Development Promoting Teamwork  Teamwork and collaboration are cornerstones of our success. Along with internal team-building activities, Pioneer is the premier sponsor 
of two local community initiatives: Corporate Challenge held in Richardson, Texas, and Corporate Cup held in Midland, Texas. These community competitions are Olympic-style, coed team building tournaments that garner high participation among our employees. While these events were postponed due to the pandemic, we eagerly anticipate their return in 2022 and the opportunity to make an impact on our communities through philanthropic support while encouraging healthy competition and teamwork.  Talent Management and Development  At Pioneer, our annual performance management process is based on a foundation of frequent check-in discussions and a culture of 
continuous feedback that aims to support and enable our employees 
to perform at their best. 
In accordance with our RESPECT values and culture, our 
Performance Management process encourages and reinforces:   • Ongoing feedback and coaching    • Employee growth and development for both their current role 
     and future success    • Alignment of individual goals with company goals and team 
     objectives Additionally, over 90% of employees who participated in our 
post-review survey responded that they had quality performance discussions with their manager.  
Pioneer strives to build a more proficient and engaged workforce with skill-building and competency-based training and development opportunities. Our competency model comprises professional, 
leadership and technical competencies and complements our Individual Development Planning process.  Our competency-based development framework allows us to:    • Enable data-driven decision-making on learning and development 
     priorities    • Provide guidance and employee development    • Promote targeted career discussions   • Empower employees to drive their own development 
Pioneer offers many opportunities and resources to help employees grow their knowledge and skills in accordance with our 70/20/10 learning model (70% on-the-job and experience-based, 20% collaboration and coaching, 10% formal training). SOCIAL VALUE59Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		We offer employees a variety of self-service options, compliance 
and technical trainings, consultation services, service provider 
partnerships, and more. Pioneer University, in partnership with learning service provider, Cornerstone Learning, has over 800 offerings.  We believe the development of our employees is key to our future success. In 2021, Pioneer invested over 88,000 hours on training — 
an average of 42 hours per employee. Talent Planning Pioneer’s talent planning approach takes a cross-functional view of our employee base to identify high potential, critical technical talent and successor candidates for leadership roles. Our objectives are to provide increased visibility and mobility, retain and engage our key talent and provide targeted, accelerated development opportunities to prepare our future leaders.  
One example of our talent-planning approach is our targeted leadership development program. Employees are identified through our annual talent planning process as high potentials and/or critical role successors. Participants are placed into one of three development groups: Elevate, Accelerate, or Inspire. The program includes self-paced development resources, leadership workshops and trainings, coaching and leadership assessments, and other tools tailored to each group. The goal of this targeted development program is to enhance 
leadership capabilities, increase successor readiness, and develop 
and engage key talent. In 2021, we implemented another talent-planning program, one 
focused on diverse, high-performing talent. Participants engage in four, hour-long sessions with professional career coaches, focusing 
on development and advancement within the company.  Program Objectives:   • Gain insights into current career advancement challenges faced 
     by professionals early in their career.   • Study perceptions and attitudes toward career advancement.   • Understand the impact of early career coaching on career 
     advancement prospects.   • Gather insights that can be used to support existing interventions 
     to develop and retain professionals early in their career. 
Investing in Future Talent  A key component of our diversity strategy is recruiting the next 
generation of Pioneer employees. We carefully select interns and place them on challenging, relevant projects that complement our companywide business goals.SOCIAL VALUE60Our Reporting ApproachWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Each intern is assigned a mentor and team to maximize learning and collaboration. We broaden the pool of diverse job candidates by reaching out to local student chapters such as the National Society of Black Engineers, Association of Women Geoscientists and Society of Women Engineers at universities where we recruit. Engaging with students from demographics that are traditionally underrepresented in the oil and gas industry has shown to have a direct impact on the diversity of our new hires.  Our interns visit Pioneer field operations in person – experiencing drilling, completions, facilities development and gas processing 
operations firsthand – while interacting with engineers, geoscientists, technicians and field personnel. These field trips, which are designed to develop a comprehensive understanding of Pioneer’s oil and gas operations, also serve as a great way for interns to network with each other and their fellow Pioneer employees. We also strive to develop our diverse talent pipeline by creating opportunities for younger students. As we have in previous years, again in 2021, Pioneer sponsored a summer intern through the All Stars Project’s Development School for Youth. Through the program, students from west and south Dallas learn professional leadership skills while partnering with business leaders who conduct development workshops throughout the year. Program graduates are then placed in six-week paid summer internships, where they continue to develop their leadership and professional skills and 
connect to the world of business success. Supply Chain and Sustainable Development  Pioneer recognizes there are inherent risks when working with third party suppliers; therefore, we strive to work with companies that share our high standards and values. Pioneer assesses every supplier through an extensive prequalification process based on the specific work type. As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, business integrity, safety and environmental stewardship are some of our main priorities. Pioneer’s standard Master Service and Sales Agreement contractually obligates our suppliers to comply with our Code of Business Conduct, including our Human Rights Policy and Commitment. Safety and environmental stewardship are integral to our relationship with our suppliers. Pioneer standard sourcing and contract templates include suppliers’ obligations to participate in contractor safety meetings, provide root cause analysis and perform thorough HSE reporting. In a continued effort to mitigate risks, our Pioneer policies, programs and goals are communicated to our suppliers starting with their initial set up as a Pioneer service provider and 
reinforced through ongoing performance management conversations.  Pioneer Supplier Code of Conduct  Pioneer has strengthened our supplier expectations with a Supplier Code of Conduct that aligns with and complements Pioneer’s Code of Business Conduct and provides additional clarity to our suppliers regarding: values, human rights, sustainability, compliance and anti-
bribery, conflicts of interest, safety and environmental considerations, and compliance. By providing goods and services to Pioneer, each supplier agrees to the principles and guidelines outlined in the Supplier 
Code of Conduct and Ethics and agrees not to take any action that would cause Pioneer or any of its employees to be in violation of that Code. Pioneer sets our expectations and ethical standards high and strives to work with the best suppliers in the business that 
share similar values and standards. It requires suppliers to embody 
the special set of values that Pioneer was founded on in their 
relationship with Pioneer - honesty, mutual respect, accountability, innovation, inclusion and communication – known as the company’s RESPECT values. Pioneer suppliers must comply with the Human Rights Policy as the expectation is to respect the dignity of all human 
beings. Suppliers are expected to share our goals of corporate sustainability, diversity, and social responsibility. Pioneer conducts its operations in a manner that protects the safety of individuals and is dedicated to a healthy environment by complying with environmental laws; we expect our suppliers to do the same. Suppliers are expected to keep accurate and detailed books and records relating to goods and services provided to Pioneer. These books and records shall be made available by Pioneer for audits.  Sustainable Procurement Commitment Pioneer Supply Chain Management has also developed a Sustainable Procurement Commitment for employees to outline standards for assessing suppliers’ commitment to sustainability, ESG and Corporate Social Responsibility. We hold ourselves accountable, as well as our suppliers, by upholding all state and federal laws and driving toward innovative solutions for sustainability. We utilize risk mapping and ESG assessments of our critical supply base to monitor risk and progress. Pioneer commits to training Supply Chain Management staff to understand and communicate a focus on sustainability and related policies and encourage our suppliers to have their own sustainable procurement commitment. Supplier Continuous Improvement Suppliers may be required to participate in our Supplier Relationship 
Management program (SRM) to assist in identifying supplier strengths and areas of opportunity. Pioneer conducts quarterly evaluations with suppliers on key performance indicators (KPIs) such as safety, cost, performance and ESG. Pioneer also conducts supplier audits at 
least once every three years, or more frequently at its discretion, to verify compliance with our policies and expectations. Performance improvement plans will be instituted for any suppliers not meeting our expectations. We promote collaboration and continuous improvement from our business partners and work upfront with suppliers to set expectations, ensure accountability, and aid innovation.     SOCIAL VALUE61Our Reporting ApproachWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Supplier Collaboration to Drive Sustainability Pioneer Supply Chain Management is currently onboarding all critical suppliers to EcoVadis, a widely accepted ESG and Business 
Sustainability rating platform. Pioneer expects our suppliers to adhere to a minimum acceptable score and works with any vendor 
falling below that threshold to establish improvement plans to increase their score. We are proud of the strong commitment to ESG demonstrated by the participation of our suppliers. The evaluation process is streamlined, efficient and designed to bring insight and awareness across a broad supplier base. A questionnaire, which must be conducted yearly, is given to each supplier by the rating agency and a score is provided based on the responses. The questionnaires are tailored to each supplier’s specific industry, size, and location. Suppliers must upload supporting documentation to verify their responses to receive credit. The supplier scores provided by EcoVadis are utilized by our Supply Chain Management team when awarding work and in our SRM program. We have integrated an ESG component into our standard contract award process and our decision matrix scorecard includes ESG grading as a component to a bidder’s overall score. EcoVadis aids our sustainability risk mapping and provides an unbiased baseline that enables collaboration between Pioneer and our suppliers to improve sustainability together by continuously creating year-over-year improvement.  SOCIAL VALUE62Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Emphasizing Sustainable Procurement Pioneer Supply Chain Management works with suppliers to find new ways to reduce environmental impact and risk while creating more sustainable operations. In many cases, we have achieved these goals through automation, improved technology and a focus on the overall 
economics and engineering of a given project. Our sustainable 
procurement program has also challenged our Supply Chain 
Management employees to collaborate with other departments 
to seek innovative solutions to reduce waste and realize potential 
cost savings.  
Pioneer developed multiple equipment reuse programs, including test separators, electronic submersible pump equipment, valves, and wellheads – resulting in a total reuse savings of $41 million in 2021. One success story comes from collaboration between Supply Chain and Drilling, where a casing thread protector recycling program was developed in September 2021. Since its inception, 480,000 pounds of plastics have been recycled thanks to the innovative program. 
We hope to share more ways we’re working to reduce waste, electrify operations and bring down costs while we continue to place a 
premium on sustainable procurement. Diverse Suppliers & Local Spend In 2021, at least 30% of our capital spend was attributed to suppliers based in the Permian Basin. Additionally, 86% of our spending was attributed to suppliers headquartered in Texas or whose goods are manufactured in-state. As a company, we recognize the importance of supporting the local community by using suppliers that are critical 
to providing employment in the region. Pioneer values its relationship with a diverse set of suppliers. To further our ESG and DEI efforts as a company, in the fourth quarter 
of 2021, Supply Chain Management kicked off an initiative to benchmark and baseline our diverse spend. With this insight, we are identifying opportunities to increase the percentage of spend with Historically Underutilized Businesses (HUB) and plan to implement a Supplier Diversity Commitment later this year. For additional Supply Chain information, visit PXD.com > Operations and Innovation > Suppliers. Lobbying and Advocacy  All Pioneer lobbying and advocacy expenditures are made in the U.S. In 2021, Pioneer made significant financial contributions (more than $25,000) to the following trade and business associations, which we consider strategic partners:    • American Exploration and Production Council (AXPC)   • Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA)   • Permian Basin Petroleum Association (PBPA)   • Texans for Lawsuit Reform (TLR)   • Texas Oil and Gas Association (TXOGA)Political Engagement  Pioneer works in conjunction with industry partners to advocate for a secure energy future. We actively participate in the political process, with the goal of informing policymakers and regulators about our business and advocating for policy solutions that mutually benefit our state, local communities, industry, Pioneer and our shareholders.  
National and State Trade Associations  Pioneer works in conjunction with national, state and regional trade associations representing the oil and gas industry to share information and advance a common agenda on legislative and regulatory matters. Pioneer’s positions on major policy issues are generally aligned with the positions of the trade associations with which we maintain membership. Pioneer has adopted a policy on political expenditures, which is set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and is applicable to all Pioneer Directors and employees. As stated in the policy, no company funds may be used for political contributions in the U.S. or in any foreign country, unless permitted by law, approved by the chief executive officer or chief operating officer, and then approved by either the general counsel or chief compliance officer. Pioneer employees receive training regarding Pioneer’s political contribution processes.  The charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee of the Board provides for the committee’s oversight 
of all Pioneer political spending and lobbying activities. The 
committee, which is comprised entirely of independent directors, 
receives an annual report from senior management on Pioneer’s political activities, including corporate contributions to issue 
campaigns or referenda; payments to 527 organizations, 501(c)(4) groups, and other tax-exempt organizations; dues paid to trade 
associations; and political action committee (PAC) contributions. SOCIAL VALUE63Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Corporate Political Contributions  Pioneer may make occasional corporate contributions to political organizations and campaigns whose objectives are consistent with our business objectives in the areas in which we operate. While Pioneer directors and employees are free to participate in the political process individually, they may not represent a personal political contribution as being made on behalf of the company, and no director or employee may seek reimbursement, directly or indirectly, from Pioneer for any political contribution.  In 2021, Pioneer only made one corporate political contribution. The contribution was for $5,000 to the Texas House Republican Caucus. Political Action Committees  Some eligible employees contribute to PACs sponsored by Pioneer. The activities of the Pioneer PACs are subject to comprehensive governmental regulation, including detailed disclosure requirements. These disclosures are posted on the website of the Federal Election Commission or the Texas Ethics Commission, where they can be reviewed by members of the public. All distributions made from the PACs are approved by their respective boards, currently comprised of senior members of management. All suggested distributions are reviewed to ensure they are consistent with legal limits and are 
delivered to entities eligible to receive PAC funds. All contributions 
to PACs are voluntary, and it is Pioneer’s policy that no one be 
favored or disadvantaged by reason of the amount of their contribution 
or their decision not to contribute. For additional information on political expenditures, visit PXD.com > Culture > Advocacy.Corporate GivingPioneer and our employees have a storied philanthropic history — 
we seek out events, organizations and initiatives to support, constantly striving to improve the quality of life for our communities. Our corporate charitable giving mission is to positively impact organizations that improve the communities where we live and work..Pioneer is proud 
of our activism, our employees’ volunteerism.and our collective 
willingness to give back. Our RESPECT values are focused on people, including employees, contractors and those with whom we interact in our communities. When you spend time with us, it won’t take long to see that our core values create a culture of being good neighbors where we live and work.. 
With the operating budgets of nonprofit organizations stretched thin after a years-long pandemic, Pioneer rose to the occasion in 2021 to assist the needy in our communities of operation. Collectively, as a company and an employee base, Pioneer and our employees gave more than $9.5 million in donations, grants and sponsorships to hundreds of charities in the Permian Basin – where Pioneer’s operations are located – and the Dallas-Fort Worth area, where our corporate headquarters are located. That tally includes millions of dollars’ worth of computers, land, trucks and firefighting equipment, among dozens of other essential items. The largest in-kind donations include the company’s gift in November of more than 35 acres of land to Midland Habitat for Humanity. The 
acreage, valued at around $2 million, represented the largest land donation the area nonprofit had ever received.  Corporate Giving: A Strategic InvestmentPioneer’sOperationalE&P GoalsPhilanthropic& CommunityNeedsStrategicCorporate Giving• Recruitment &   Retention• License to OperateSOCIAL VALUE64Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Largest land donation Midland Habitat for Humanity has ever received In late 2021, Pioneer gifted our valued homebuilding partner, Midland Habitat for Humanity, more than 35 acres of land valued at nearly $2 million. Company officials announced the record donation during a ceremony at the Midland property site where they handed over the land deed to the local nonprofit. The gift marks the largest land donation Midland Habitat for Humanity has ever received. “At Pioneer, we have a long-standing belief in the importance of supporting the communities where our employees live and work, and our partnership with Midland Habitat for 
Humanity exemplifies that commitment,” said Pioneer president & chief operating officer Rich Dealy. “So, on this Giving Tuesday 2021, we’re excited to make this donation of land to Midland Habitat for Humanity so it, along with Pioneer and its many other community supporters, can continue to make a lasting impact in the Midland community.” Pioneer has established a longtime relationship with Midland Habitat for Humanity dating back to 2012. In recent years, we’ve built six houses, and Pioneer and its employees have given $437,000 to the agency and donated thousands of hours in labor to help make the dream of home ownership attainable for those most in need. With all of 
Pioneer’s operations based in the Permian Basin, the company’s donation of the acreage has a special resonance.  “Habitat is a nonprofit developer and builder in one of the most expensive markets to buy and develop land, so without strategic partnerships and donations, we would not 
be able to do what we do,” said Joey Hopkins, executive director of Midland Habitat 
for Humanity, which has built 175 affordable homes for more than 700 people in the 
Midland-Odessa area since the chapter was established in 1991. Midland Habitat plans to work with engineers to develop a site plan for the tract 
of land, but Hopkins said its future potential is already within view.  “Pioneer’s donation is the single largest land donation we have ever received and 
will allow us to build the largest subdivision we have ever built,” Hopkins said. “And that subdivision has the potential to be the largest affordable housing development in Midland.” SOCIAL VALUE65Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		As Pioneer celebrates our 25th anniversary in 2022, the company continues to make a lasting impact on local Texas communities. 
One example is our pledge of $2.5 million to create a multipurpose Pioneer Pavilion and Event Lawn, situated near the center of a redeveloped Hogan Park in Midland, Texas. Corporate Partnerships  A pillar of Pioneer giving is our commitment to strategic corporate partnerships that positively impact the communities where we live 
and work. These partnerships take a variety of forms, from funding 
of capital campaigns and sponsorship of fundraising events to support of key charitable organizations and their programs.  In 2021, some of our key national and Dallas community partners included:    • Facing History and Ourselves   • International Rescue Committee   • Resource Center of Dallas   • Girls Incorporated of Metropolitan Dallas   • Carry the Load   • National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
    (NAACP) 
Pioneer corporate partnerships in the Permian community included:   • Boys and Girls Clubs of the Permian Basin   • CASA de Amigos of Midland Texas   • San Angelo Hispanic Heritage Museum and Cultural Center   • Bynum School   • Spectrum of Solutions   • Midland Rape Crisis Center   • Pride Center West Texas   • The Nature Conservancy   • Safe Place of the Permian Basin
Permian Strategic Partnership  As the Permian Basin has long been one of the most active and 
largest oil and gas basins globally, the people and communities have 
experienced the cycles of oil booms and busts. While the “boom” times were good, the “busts” compelled permanent residents, 
businesses and communities to save their money, a pattern that 
resulted in a lack of infrastructure investment. The development of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing technologies has unlocked a vast resource of previously untapped oil within the Basin. Seemingly overnight, new opportunities for
residents, producers and service companies were abundant. However, 
Permian towns like Midland and Odessa desperately needed an injection of resources and industry partnership.   SOCIAL VALUE66Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		After announcing our intention to become a Permian pure-play operator in late 2017, Pioneer recognized the rapid level of oil and gas development in the region was creating critical needs within the local community that required creative and enduring solutions. Working with nine other companies operating in the region, Pioneer led the creation of the Permian Strategic Partnership. This unprecedented coalition in the oil and gas industry is dedicated to improving the quality of life for Permian Basin residents in five key areas: Education, Roads, Healthcare, Affordable Housing and Workforce Development. The Permian Strategic Partnership, now consisting of 19 member companies, is a catalyst for advancing these five goals by bringing stakeholders together; advocating for local communities with national, state and local officials; and contributing people, expertise and resources to help plan for and meet local needs. Since its inception three years ago, the PSP has leveraged more than $93 million in member funds into $950 million in collaborative investments from other stakeholders. Pioneer is proud of our role in founding the 
Permian Strategic Partnership and committed to supporting the impactful initiatives the coalition implements.  Fulfilling Our MissionBy supporting the development of safer roads, innovative schools, expanded healthcare, affordable housing, a trained workforced, and other vital infrastructure needs, we can strengthen the Permian today, and ensure its success well into the future. Since our founding, we have also worked to expand broadband 
access and have helped spearhead many community focused 
studies and campaigns. – Permian Strategic PartnershipPriority Area of FocusSecondary Area of FocusTertiary Area of FocusSOCIAL VALUE67Our Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Here are some recent advancements the Permian Strategic Partnership has led in the Permian Basin:SOCIAL VALUE68Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		SOCIAL VALUE69Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		SOCIAL VALUE70Our Reporting ApproachWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		University Gifts  Pioneer has established campus relations with university partners through campus engagement events like career fairs and interviews, student internships, and university donations to maintain a talent pipeline of young professionals. In 2021, Pioneer corporately 
supported the universities noted below, giving a total contribution of $735,000.    • MIT  • Texas A&M  • Texas Tech  • University of Oklahoma
  • University of Texas at Austin  • University of Texas at Dallas 
  • UTPB  • Prairie View A&M GivingTuesday  In 2021, Pioneer hosted our third GivingTuesday corporate event to celebrate the global day of giving and collaboration. During one specific week, Pioneer tripled employees’ donations to a charitable organization of their choice, up to a $500 maximum, through our WELL Spent platform.  In addition to Pioneer’s 1:1 charitable match from $50-$5,000 annually—
we offer special 2:1 match days for employees contributions including Permian Basin Gives Day in the Spring and Giving Tuesday each Fall. SOCIAL VALUE71Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Chapter 9Our Reporting ApproachThis Sustainability Report highlights the specific sustainability-related governance and risk management measures we undertake to actively address issues important to both Pioneer and our internal and external stakeholders. Pioneer conducted an internal audit of this report to ensure subject matter experts in each department provided adequate supporting documentation and data to substantiate the information disclosed in this report. As there is not currently a prescribed set of ESG reporting metrics mandated by applicable law, Pioneer has been informed by or utilized the recommendations of leading, standard-setting organizations for our disclosed information and reporting scope. 
Reporting Framework and Scope1) To locate disclosures, reference the Sustainability Performance Data Table and Sustainability Content Index     2) Oil and Gas – Exploration and Production Industry Standard OUR REPORTING APPROACH72Water
ManagementEmissions ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Materiality Assessment and Stakeholder Engagement Pioneer believes a constructive and transparent relationship with stakeholders is a priority to better understand their views and improve our reporting of perceived risks and the likelihood of their occurrence and potential impacts. Accordingly, Pioneer has annually solicited feedback from shareholders, shareholder services, ESG rating agencies, non-government organizations, experts and industry organizations to better align our ESG policies and disclosures with their stated priority issues for the upstream oil and gas industry.  Shareholder Outreach Shareholder outreach occurs prior to our annual meeting and generally is focused on issues to be voted on at the annual meeting. Following the annual meeting, additional shareholder and other stakeholder 
outreach occurs to review a broader range of topics of concern. Pioneer’s Investor Relations team facilitates communication with shareholders and answers questions about our business and ESG matters. 
Pioneer’s Chairman of the Board, CEO, COO, CFO and other executive leaders are actively and regularly involved in shareholder outreach. Any concerns expressed by the company’s shareholders in these discussions are collected, reviewed and shared with the Board of Directors. This engagement process led to several measures described in our Sustainability Report, combined with those described in our 2022 Proxy Statement. Additional information regarding recent measures resulting from 
Pioneer’s external engagement process can be found in the 2022 proxy statement, and in this report under “Key Highlights in ESG Progress.” Pioneer has periodically conducted a materiality assessment to identify and prioritize sustainability topics we believe are the most significant to our stakeholders. The content prioritization of this report is the 
result of an ongoing process that considers internal perspectives, stakeholder feedback and relevant reporting guidelines. These data points inform our sustainability strategy and have contributed to improved, broader disclosures in this report. We expect the content of our sustainability reporting to evolve as Pioneer assesses and responds to continued feedback and as changes to our asset base and operating footprint warrant. However, we 
recognize that “materiality” means different things in different 
circumstances. As set forth above, under “Reporting Framework and Scope,” the term materiality, as used in this report, is not based on the definition of materiality used in U.S. securities law. Our Annual Report and financial filings include material risks as defined by regulatory requirements or we believe are material to our investors. Detailed analysis of our financial performance can also be found in our Annual Report. Please reference section entitled Additional Information 
and Assurance.  Improved Materiality Assessment In creating and categorizing an initial list of topics for this report, 
we considered information discussed in our previous sustainability 
reports, standard voluntary reporting frameworks (e.g., GRI, SASB, TCFD) and other industry resources. We then determined the appropriate stakeholders to provide feedback on the information presented under each category. To better engage with our stakeholders, 
we have conducted a more formal materiality process aligned with reporting best practices. Pioneer’s Sustainability Oversight Committee and staff have proactively engaged with the ESG rating agencies to increase the alignment of our reporting with their systems and broad base stakeholder sustainability materiality.  Pioneer initiated a materiality assessment with the assistance of an independent third party. With their guidance, and in order to prioritize ESG issues, we worked through 2021 to prioritize a list of stakeholders and gain their feedback through survey and qualitative engagements. Our assessment has recently been distributed to 
individuals from stakeholder groups, including academics, community organizations, consultants and service providers, foundations, 
government and regulatory representatives, independent experts 
and thought leaders, industry associations, shareholders, multi-stakeholder coalitions, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and suppliers. Respondents were asked to identify three key ESG priorities of their organization. The primary request of the survey is to rate each topic’s potential impact on Pioneer and our associated impact – positive or negative – on the economy, environment and people. Additionally, Pioneer will host qualitative discussions with key Pioneer stakeholders and select assessment respondents. Pioneer intends to thoughtfully consider and utilize the results of this voluntary assessment to help guide our ESG program and disclosures over the coming years. Step 1Identify - Review existing and emerging issues, consolidate feedback and update reporting.Step 2Prioritize -  Determine topics to be included in the report as well as their relative prominence.Step 3Check - Confirm issue coverage and presentation is sufficiently detailed and prioritized appropriately.Step 4Review - Periodically see feedback on the sustainability report from both internal and external stakeholders to determine whether the report adequately covered the issues of importance to stakeholders. OUR REPORTING APPROACH73Water
ManagementEmissions ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Additional Information and Assurance  Our Annual Report and financial filings include a discussion of material risks and other matters we believe are material to our investors. The term materiality, as used in this report, is not based on the definition of materiality used in U.S. securities laws. Insofar as the determination of materiality for this report is based on laws and regulations applicable to securities filings and other investor communications, the topics deemed material for sustainability reporting purposes may differ from the topics deemed material in financial reporting.  Assurance Pioneer conducted an internal audit of this report to determine whether subject matter experts in each department provided 
adequate supporting documentation and data to substantiate the 
information disclosed in this report. A weekly audit report was provided to key contributors, and a final, comprehensive analysis was presented to the ESG Task Force at the end of the full reporting process. This Sustainability Report was then approved for publication by select members of the ESG Task Force.  
As detailed in the ERM CVS Assurance Statement appended to this report, Pioneer has secured limited assurance on selected Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data. ERM CVS has evaluated the data and provided limited assurance that it is fairly presented in Pioneer’s 2022 Sustainability Report. ERM CVS’s methodology was based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000. Forward-looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning 
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These 
forward- looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as “target,” “will,” “plan,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future,” “commit,” “intend,” “potential,” “estimate,” and similar expressions that contem.plate future events. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and Pioneer undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-looking Information  Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this report are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneer’s actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of commodity prices, the impact of a widespread outbreak of an illness, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, on global and U.S. economic activity; the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof; other government regulation or action; Pioneer’s ability to achieve its emissions reduction, flaring and other ESG goals; the assumptions underlying forecasts; and environmental and weather risks, including the possible impacts of climate change. These and other risks are described in Pioneer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed thereafter and other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, Pioneer may be subject to currently unfore.seen risks that may have a materially adverse effect on it. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that the actual events and results will not be materially different than the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such statements. Pioneer undertakes no, and expressly disclaims any, duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law.  This report contains statements based on hypothetical or severely adverse scenarios and assumptions, and these statements should not necessarily be viewed as being representative of expected risk. While future events discussed in this report may be significant, any significance should not be read as necessarily rising to the level of materiality of the disclosures required under the U.S. federal securities laws.   OUR REPORTING APPROACH74Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		OUR REPORTING APPROACH75