Diversity, Inclusion and Social ValuesPioneer is proud to be a force for good in our local communities. Consistent with our RESPECT values, we are focused on people, including employees, contractors and those with whom we interact in our communities.  DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES69OnePioneer: Our Inclusive Culture Our Diversity and Inclusion program cultivates an environment where people feel included, respected and valued, which has never been more relevant than it is today. An inclusive workplace enables us to embrace diverse backgrounds and perspectives to attract, retain and develop the best talent. Through grassroots interest, leadership support, and robust training and development programs, our employees are embracing differences and actively learning how to better leverage different schools of thought to achieve business results. We are excited about the momentum we have gained and are ready to 
continue learning. Equal Opportunity Employment Our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy provides equal employment opportunity for all qualified employees and applicants without regard to race, color, sexual orientation, gender or gender identity, religion, national origin, disability, veteran status, age, marital status, pregnancy, genetic information, or other legally protected status.  This obligation applies to all employment 
practices including, but not limited to:    • Recruiting, hiring, promotion, transfer, 
     demotion, layoff, termination and training    • Treatment during employment    • Rates of pay or other forms of compensation 
     and benefits    • Selection for training including apprenticeship 
     and on-the-job training as applicable    • Social and recreational activities or programs  Pioneer does not and will not discriminate against any qualified employee or applicant based on any of the aforementioned factors.  Pioneer included sexual orientation and gender identity in our antiharassment and discrimination labor practices ahead of the 2020 U.S. Supreme Court ruling which upheld those protections within the Civil Rights Act of 1964. We have also signed the Business Coalition for the Equality Act which, if passed, would extend these federal protections to other areas such as fair housing and credit. The Coalition is a group of leading U.S. employers that support the Equality Act, federal legislation that would provide the same basic protections to those who identify as LGBTQ as are provided to other protected groups under federal law.  Human Rights In 2020, we formally adopted a companywide Human Rights Policy and Human Rights Commitment that reflects how we have historically chosen to operate domestically and worldwide. Our Human Rights 
Policy is based on the following United Nations and International Labour Organizations standards promoting social progress, better living standards, respecting indigenous peoples and human rights 
for all individuals:   • Universal Declaration of Human Rights   • United Nations Guiding Principles on Business 
     and Human Rights     
  • International Labour Organization Declaration 
     on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work   • United Nations Declaration on the Rights of 
     Indigenous Peoples    • International Labour Organization Convention 169  Our Chief Compliance Officer, in conjunction with our Management Committee, is responsible for the management and adherence of these policies and commitments with oversight from our Board. The policy details the manner in which we respect both people and lands, as well as how we source the supplies we use for our business. Pioneer strives to source products from vendors meeting our standards of responsibility. We expect our suppliers to respect their workers and communities and avoid conducting business in ways that harm people.  To view our.Human Rights Policy,.Human Rights Commitment,.Equality is Good Business statement, the Equality Act.and related information, go to PXD.com > Culture >.Values.. Transparent and Engaged Leadership At Pioneer, we believe in transparency, and it starts at the top. Our Management Committee members held roundtable discussions to foster open communication among all levels of employees. These promote inclusive conversations while providing leadership the opportunity to discuss current company initiatives and challenges. 
Employees share views on items ranging from business strategy to current events and community concerns in small group settings over breakfast 
or lunch.  
Candid conversations continued with panel 
discussions covering topics that impact our 
employees and communities. This included 
discussions of climate change as well as race and 
inequality, providing a safe space for employees to listen and explore diverse views present in our culture. Actively Engaged Employees Giving employees a voice is paramount to creating a thriving and resilient culture. Our annual engagement survey provides a view into our overall organizational health. In 2019, we received 83 percent participation, up from 74 percent in 2018. The results are used to identify issues that our employees would like to see improvement and opportunities.  OnePioneer Employee Resource Group  Over the past 11 years Pioneer established multiple resource groups for our employees. After experiencing steady growth with these groups, we found that more than 50 percent of participants were members of two or more groups, prompting the leaders of our resource groups to rethink how they come 
together. The leaders recommended that the groups be combined into one team that would focus on diversity and inclusion programming across the company. It was evident that our members cared for communities different from their own, and we recognized that true change can be accomplished when we band together. As a result, we joined the groups together to create OnePioneer. OnePioneer is led and self-governed by a diverse representation of our employees. They operate as a singular 
team to advance diversity and inclusion across 
the entire company. DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES71DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES72OnePioneer’s mission is to champion our culture of RESPECT and community stewardship by fostering an inclusive and productive environment that visibly supports and actively empowers all employees to thrive through education, recruitment, advocacy, wellness, development, mentorship, networking and philanthropy. More than 30 percent of our employees are members of OnePioneer.  OnePioneer Principles We listen, show up and speak up as allies for people and 
communities that are different from our own. We advocate for an accessible and inclusive workplace that supports employees with permanent and temporary disabilities.  We embolden our employees to bring their whole selves to work 
regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression.  We support veterans, active service members and their families.  We appreciate and celebrate individuals from all cultural 
backgrounds and foster a culture of inclusion through promoting a constructive understanding of our differences and potential biases.  We connect employees through mentorship, networking 
and shared learning to adapt and succeed at every stage 
of their careers in a rapidly changing workplace.  We promote equality through the development, retention and 
advancement of women and people of color at Pioneer. DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES73Under the OnePioneer umbrella, we still provide 
a space for employees to come together with 
a shared interest or identity. Pioneer proudly 
supports these network groups:   • Different Abilities Network   • Women’s Network   • Early Career Employees   • Military Network   • Multicultural Network   • Parent and Caregivers Network   • PRIDE+ Network   • Appreciating Differences Pioneer continued our diversity and inclusion training program developed in conjunction with a third-party provider called Appreciating Differences™. The program enabled learners to discover how 
diversity impacts business and provides participants 
a private examination of their reactions toward human difference. It also motivates them to embrace the role of a diversity change agent to promote 
workplace inclusion, employee engagement and 
productivity. With 100 percent of leaders and 
75 percent of individual contributors trained, we 
will continue to offer the training as a core tool in 
our diversity strategy.  

WELL Done Having a culture in which employees feel recognized and valued is paramount. Pioneer launched WELL Done, our new employee appreciation program, in 2019. Driven by both peer-to-peer and manager 
recognition, WELL Done allows Pioneer employees to recognize and reward their colleagues for 
outstanding work, especially in relation to our 
RESPECT values. In the first year of the program, more than 3,800 WELL Done Awards were granted.DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES74Engaging our Diverse Community One of the pillars of our Diversity and Inclusion program is to help build the future talent pipeline 
of underrepresented groups in the STEM fields and to support the advancement of underrepresented groups currently working in our industry. A few highlights of our partnerships with community 
organizations include: Demographics  Pioneer is committed to transparency around diversity and inclusion. As part of that, we offer full view of our progress to date. In 2019, women held 27 percent of all leadership positions including 32 percent at the senior executive level. The overall proportion of minority employees has remained steady over the past years. We continue to achieve steady growth within both senior executive and mid-level management. Pioneer actively leverages our campus recruiting program to diversify our pipeline of incoming talent. 
The Pioneer Management Committee regularly reviews the demographics of our employees to ensure that diversity is advanced at all levels of the company.  DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES75Campus Recruiting Diversity Demographics for new graduates and interns From best available data sources, however as we continue to improve data collection methods and processes, these numbers may be subject to change.DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES77Investing in our People, Our Greatest Asset Pioneer is committed to being a workplace where individuals bring their authentic selves and are supported in an environment that nurtures all 
aspects of their lives, leading them to perform their best. Our success is driven by our people. Compensation and Benefits Pioneer annually reviews salaries for all employees to ensure a living wage, adjust for market conditions, and attract and retain a highly skilled workforce.  Pay for Performance Each Pioneer employee can influence their 
take-home pay through their performance. 
Our employees participate in:   • Cash incentive plan that takes into consideration 
     individual and company performance   • Traditional bonus plan heavily influenced by 
     individual performance and    • Variable compensation plan denominated in 
     company stock. Best-in-Class Benefits We consider our employees to be our greatest asset and encourage them to take full advantage of the great benefits and programs we offer. 
To ensure we attract and retain top talent, we set ourselves apart from other employers by carefully selecting an outstanding benefits package.  Peer and Industry-Competitive Benefit Offerings:   • Comprehensive medical, dental and vision plans   • Company-provided life insurance, short-term 
     disability and long-term disability   • Paid maternity and paternity leave    • 12 weeks of 100 percent pay for primary caregiver   • 2 weeks of 100 percent pay for secondary 
     caregiver   • Flexible work schedule and compressed workweek    • Generous paid time off program, including 
     paid sick leave   • 401(k) employer match 
Careful Restructuring Like many companies before us, Pioneer has recently faced the difficult task of reducing and restructuring our workforce. In 2019, we realigned our staff to fit our Permian pure-play business model, and in 2020 we were forced to reduce our workforce again to 
reflect the reduction in the company’s long-term growth rate following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and the simultaneous slump in oil prices. While we very much consider this a last resort and work hard to avoid this scenario, we take great care 
in ensuring our employees are well cared for until they secure their next role. We provide a generous salary allotment, additional funds for insurance coverage and full vesting of Pioneer stock awards, among 
other provisions.  A Culture of Health and Wellness Onsite Amenities that set our Company Apart 
Daycare Centers: Employees in our Las Colinas 
and Midland Corporate Offices have the convenience 
of an onsite childcare center that offers early childhood programs for their children ranging from infants to kindergarten prep.  Health Centers: Pioneer has three on-site health clinics that provide healthcare for both employees 
and their families. Medical services provided include preventative screenings, sick visits, routine check-ups, chronic condition management and urgent care needs. Employee Cafeterias: Employees enjoy 
a range of healthy eating options at five of our office locations equipped with an on-site cafeteria.  Fitness Centers: All locations have on-site fitness centers for employee use.  Virtual Healthcare Access: When the world was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, Pioneer was able to seamlessly provide employees and their families with the same level of healthcare as before. Many of our programs already offered (or quickly adapted to) a telehealth option.  DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES78Focus on Mental Health  The pandemic has put a spotlight on the mental health crisis in a new and immediate way. The stress, anxiety, isolation and uncertainty of this time are not only raising awareness but pushing us as individuals and as a society to have the honest conversations we always needed to have about mental health – especially taking action. Pioneer has always been proud to provide our employees and their families with a multi-channel offering 
of different resources to assist with achieving 
their optimal mental health and well-being. Feel 1 Mil In 2019, Pioneer launched Feel 1 Mil, a total mind and body wellness program. Feel 1 Mil offers several opportunities to nurture mind, body and spirit, allowing employees to prioritize their health and wellness. Employees and their families have access to our online wellness portal to track health and wellness goals. With services such as Teledoc, health bots, and on-site mammography and 
biometric screenings, employees have around-the-clock choices for preventative, mental and acute medical care.  Promoting Teamwork Teamwork and collaboration are cornerstones 
of our success. Along with internal team-building activities, Pioneer is the premier sponsor of two local community initiatives: Corporate Challenge held in Richardson, Texas, and Corporate Cup held in Midland. These community competitions are Olympic style, coed team building tournaments that garner high participation among our employees. Although a primary benefit of this healthy 
competition is bringing our employees together, the most fulfilling benefit is the philanthropic support for our communities.  Talent Management and Development  Performance Management At Pioneer, our performance management process occurs quarterly and enables our employees to 
perform at their best. In accordance with our 
RESPECT values and culture, our performance 
management process encourages and reinforces:   • Ongoing feedback and coaching between 
     employees and managers   • Employee growth and development for their 
     current role and future success   • Alignment of individual goals with company 
    goals and team objectives Competency-Based Developments Pioneer strives to build a more skilled and 
engaged workforce with skill-building and 
competency-based training and development opportunities. Our competency model comprises professional, leadership and technical competencies and complements our Individual Development Planning process. Our competency-based 
development framework allows us to:   • Clarify what success looks like in current or future   
     job roles and career paths    • Enable data-driven decision-making on learning 
     and development priorities    • Provide guidance and employee development    • Promote candid feedback and career discussions 
     between employees and managers    • Empower employees to drive their own developmentDIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES79Learning Development Pioneer offers many opportunities and resources to help employees grow their knowledge and skills in 
accordance with our 70/20/10 learning model (70 percent on-the-job and experience-based, 20 percent collaboration and coaching, 10 percent formal training). We offer employees a variety of self-service options, compliance trainings, technical trainings, consultation services, vendor partnerships and more. Pioneer University, in partnership with Cornerstone, has 800+ offerings. Here are some trainings 
launched in 2019. DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES80Talent Planning Our Talent Planning approach identifies and 
targets development for critical talent. We 
identify critical roles based on several factors, including strategic importance, significant 
scope and impact, and unique skills. Successor candidates for those critical roles are then 
identified as those who have the interest, ability and experience to succeed in the critical role 
within five years. High potentials are identified based on an assessment of four factors of 
potential and their achievable level. Talent 
Planning enables Pioneer to proactively approach succession planning and offer targeted 
development for high potentials and successors, while enabling a cross-functional view of talent 
to increase visibility and mobility. Below is 
an example of a targeted development 
approach we put into place for officer-level 
successor candidates. Executive Leadership Development Assessment – A 1.5-day program hosted by Leadership Worth Following, LLC, this development course includes online assessments, an in-depth interview and leadership simulations, as well as detailed 
feedback and coaching aimed at accelerating development of our future executive leaders.  Investing in Future Talent Campus Recruiting A key component of our diversity strategy is 
recruiting the next generation of Pioneer 
employees. We carefully select interns and place them on challenging, problem-solving projects 
that complement our ongoing exploration and 
development efforts. Each intern is assigned 
a mentor and team to maximize learning 
and collaboration. We broaden the pool of diverse job candidates 
by reaching out to local student chapters such 
as National Society of Black Engineers, 
Association of Women Geoscientists and Society 
of Women Engineers at approximately 11 universities. Promoting diversity initiatives on campus to engage female and underrepresented students through 
various university programs has shown to have a direct impact on the diversity of our new hires. Our interns visit the oil field and view operations firsthand, such as drilling, completions, facilities development and gas processing, while interacting with engineers, geoscientists, technicians and field personnel. Field trips, which are designed to 
develop a comprehensive understanding of 
Pioneer oil and gas operations, also serve as a great way for interns to get to know each other 
and their fellow Pioneer employees. Commitment to Education In 2019, Pioneer provided $1.5 million in grants to students through our scholarship and employee 
tuition reimbursement programs. Partnering with organizations such as the Women’s Energy 
Network allows us to further our reach and 
encourage the next generation of female 
representation in STEM fields. Additional 
activities to support education in the areas in 
which we operate include:   • Matching employee gifts to institutions of 
     higher education    • Participation in local advisory committees 
     for primary and secondary education   • Mentor partnership with Parker Elementary   • Supporting our Communities Pioneer and our employees have a long philanthropic history. In 2019, this culminated in the rollout of our first comprehensive strategic corporate giving plan, WELL Spent. Pioneer is committed to 
enhancing the communities where we live and work, and WELL Spent is an essential part of 
our corporate outreach. The program helps us serve the needs of our communities, support employee involvement within those regions and build positive stakeholder relationships. Pioneer RESPECT values are focused on people, including employees, contractors and those with whom we interact in our communities. To support our corporate giving program, Pioneer implemented a new charitable giving platform in 2019. The WELL Spent platform gives employees and philanthropic partners a one-stop shop for all charitable activities. Pioneer believes our corporate giving should help strengthen the communities where we live and work. Specifically, our contributions should make a meaningful impact in areas that align with our values and goals and are important to our employees.  In 2019, Pioneer and our employees contributed nearly $5 million to charitable organizations and educational institutions. We promote individual and corporate philanthropy by utilizing a multi-layered approach that includes strategic corporate partnerships, volunteer committees, leadership oversight, 
employee-driven matching and grants, and 
university gifts. DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES81Corporate Giving: A Strategic InvestmentPioneer’sOperationalE&P GoalsPhilanthropic& CommunityNeedsStrategicCorporate Giving• Recruitment &   Retention• License to OperateDIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES82Corporate Partnerships A pillar of Pioneer giving is our commitment to strategic corporate partnerships that positively impact the communities where we live and work. These partnerships take a variety of forms, from funding of capital campaigns and sponsorship of fundraising events to support of key charitable organizations and their programs.  In 2019, some of our key Dallas community 
partners included:    • Dallas Area Habitat for Humanity
  • Dallas CASA
  • Dallas Theater Center
  • Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation 
     International
  • The George W. Bush Foundation and
     Community Home for Adults
  
Pioneer corporate partnerships in the Permian community included:    • Midland Habitat for Humanity
  • United Way of Midland
  • CASA of West Texas
  • Centennial Park
  • Bynum School
  • Parker Elementary
  • Permian Basin Petroleum Museum
  • Bustin’ for Badges
  • The MS SocietyDonations Committee and Permian 
Leadership Team In 2019, our volunteer-based Permian Donations Committee was comprised of employee volunteers from our Midland operations.  Our senior Midland leaders oversee Pioneer 
involvement and giving in our Permian community 
by approving donation recommendations and guiding Pioneer philanthropic partnership decisions in the Permian. Members offer a unique perspective by being community residents, employees and company leaders. In 2019, our Permian Donations Committee contributed nearly $100,000 in total 
to local Volunteer Fire Departments, Future 
Farmers of America (FFA) and Livestock 
Associations across our Permian community. University Gifts and Matching  Pioneer needs a skilled, educated and talented work force in order to continue our successful operations. We work to attract top talent by direct involvement with schools, colleges and universities where we recruit. Through our company match option in WELL Spent, Directors and employees may make a personal contribution to a university or college of their choice, and Pioneer will match their gift (up to a $5,000 individual maximum). 
To foster our culture of giving with our younger 
employees, employees up to 35 years of age 
receive a three-to-one match for their donation 
to an educational institution. Pioneer has also 
established campus relations with university 
partners through campus engagement events 
like career fairs and interviews, student internships, and university donations to maintain a talent 
pipeline of young professionals. In 2019, Pioneer corporately supported the universities above, for 
a total contribution of $1,135,000.DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES83In 2019, Pioneer corporately supported the following universities, 
for a total contribution of: $1,135,000DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES84GivingTuesday In 2019, Pioneer hosted our first GivingTuesday corporate event to celebrate the global day of giving and collaboration. Pioneer matched donations of employees to a charitable organization of their choice, up to a $250 maximum. Employees had a 24-hour period to submit their contributions and match requests through the WELL Spent platform. GivingTuesday was a great success: More than 340 employees 
participated, representing every Pioneer office location and raising roughly $117,000 – including the 
company match – for more than 285 charities. 

In November 2019, the Association of Fundraising Professionals Permian Basin Chapter awarded Pioneer the Outstanding Philanthropic Business Award, acknowledging our contributions within the Permian 
community. The association acknowledged and recognized local companies and organizations for 
philanthropy, fundraising and volunteering. Those recognized were nominated by community members and chosen by a panel of local nonprofit and philanthropic leaders.  DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES85Bettering our Communities WELL Spent is more than donations – our strategic philanthropic plan includes organizing employee-
focused volunteering events with many of our key charitable partners. Pioneer employees actively 
participate when it comes to bettering our communities.  DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES86Supply Chain Management  Local Permian Basin Suppliers – Pioneer values its relationship with a diverse set of local Permian Basin contractors and suppliers. In 2019, at least 
39 percent of our capital spend is attributed to suppliers based in the area, with more than 75 percent of our spend attributed to suppliers 
headquartered in Texas or whose goods are 
manufactured in-state. As a company, we 
recognize the importance of supporting the 
local community of suppliers critical to 
employment in the region. Supplier Expectations 
We strive to work with companies that share our high standards and values. As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, business integrity, safety and environmental stewardship are our main priorities. Pioneer’s standard master service agreements 
contractually obligate our contractors and suppliers to comply with our Code of Business Conduct, 
including our Human Rights Policy and Commitment. Supply Chain Management utilizes our procure-to-
pay process to encourage sustainable practices within our supplier community. We encourage 
collaboration and continuous improvement from our business partners and work up front with 
suppliers to set expectations and ensure accountability. 
Our Supply Chain team is working to better 
understand our relationships with Historically 
Underutilized Businesses (minority-, women- 
and veteran-owned businesses) as a part of our overall ESG and diversity efforts as a company.  Supplier Collaboration to 
Drive Sustainability  
Pioneer Supply Chain Management works with suppliers to find new ways to reduce our environmental impact and risk while creating more sustainable operations. In many cases, we have achieved these goals through automation, improved technology, and focus on the overall economics and engineering of a given project. Our Supply Chain is integrating an ESG component into our standard contract award process.  Supply Chain Management Integrating Safety and SustainabilityDIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES87Supplier Pre-Qualification 
Pioneer assesses every supplier through an 
extensive prequalification process based on 
the specific work type. This process includes 
important supplier safety and environmental 
information as well as HSE documentation. 
All contractors performing services on a Pioneer location must first sign our Pioneer Master 
Service Sales Agreement, which binds them 
to our Code of Business Conduct. Safety and 
environmental stewardship are integral to our 
relationship with our contractors, and our 
Pioneer programs and goals are communicated 
to our contractors starting with their initial set up as a Pioneer supplier through ongoing Supplier Performance Management conversations. 

Supplier Sourcing and 
Performance Management 
Pioneer standard sourcing and contract templates include supplier obligations to participate in contractor safety meetings, provide root cause analysis and perform thorough HSE reporting. Contractually, suppliers may be required to 
participate in our Supplier Performance 
Management program. Key performance 
indicators may be tracked and reviewed. Pioneer 
and its suppliers conduct collaborative evaluations 
of holistic performance (including safety and 
sustainability) on a periodic basis. Pioneer 
regularly conducts supplier audits to verify 
compliance with our policies and expectations. Performance improvement plans will be instituted for any suppliers not meeting our expectations. For additional Supply Chain information, visit PXD.com > Operations and Innovation > Suppliers. Social and Economic Value 
to our Stakeholders Pioneer contributes to the U.S. economy and our nation’s increased energy security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil and reducing the overall cost of energy. However, we recognize that the increased development activity leads to 
challenges that we must address as an industry. These obstacles are particularly poignant in West Texas. As a Permian pure-play operator, Pioneer 
is exceptionally mindful of how we contribute, 
directly and indirectly, to the economies of the communities where we operate and where our 
employees work and live. While we positively 
and significantly impact the local economy through job creation, taxes and economic development opportunities for our partners, our operations 
also amplify the strain on education, housing 
and infrastructure.  In 2019, Pioneer paid more than $511 million in state and local taxes and royalties. The following map depicts the number of people Pioneer 
employed in West Texas and North Texas (our headquarters) in 2019, and the state and county taxes Pioneer paid in 2019. Production, or severance, taxes are levied by the state on companies producing natural resources. Ad valorem taxes are levied 
at a county level, and the producing resources 
are taxed according to their appraised fair 
market value. DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES88871 JobsTEXAS1,451 
JobsWorkforce and Social Investments Pioneer is a significant contributor to 
the economies of the communities where we operate and where our employees work and live. The following map depicts social investments in our operational area (the Midland Basin) and the state 
of Texas, as of December 31, 2019.  Production, or severance, taxes are levied by the state on companies producing natural resources. Ad valorem taxes are levied at a county level, and the producing resources are taxed according to their appraised fair market value. DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES89Permian Strategic Partnership After announcing our intention to become 
a Permian pure-play operator in late 2017, 
Pioneer recognized the rapid level of oil and 
gas development in the region was creating a critical need to support the local community differently. Working with nine other companies operating in the region, Pioneer led the creation of the Permian Strategic Partnership. 

This unprecedented coalition in the oil and gas 
industry is dedicated to improving the quality 
of life for Permian Basin residents in five key areas: 
1) excellent schools
2) safer roads
3) quality health care
4) affordable housing 
5) a trained workforce
The Permian Strategic Partnership, now consisting of 19 member companies, is a catalyst for advancing these five goals by bringing stakeholders together; advocating for local communities with federal, state, and local officials; and contributing people, expertise and resources to help plan for and meet local needs. To support this effort, the Permian Strategic Partnership has committed to providing more than $100 million as seed money to spur other public- and private-sector investments and support projects to improve the region’s quality of life and livelihoods. Pioneer is proud of our role in founding the Permian Strategic Partnership and committed to supporting the impactful initiatives that the coalition implements. DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES902019 PSP InitiativesDIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES91All Pioneer lobbying and advocacy expenditures are made in the United States. 
In 2019, Pioneer made significant financial contributions (more than $25,000) to the following trade and business associations, which we considered strategic partners: A comprehensive list of lobbying and advocacy contributions for 2019 can be found on the Advocacy page of PXD.com.Political Engagement Pioneer works in conjunction with industry 
partners to advocate for a secure energy future. We actively participate in the political process, with the goal of informing policymakers and 
regulators about our business and advocating 
for policy solutions that mutually benefit our state, local communities, industry, Pioneer 
and our shareholders. National and State Trade Associations Pioneer collaborates with national, state and 
regional trade associations representing the oil and gas industry to share information and advance a common agenda on legislative and regulatory matters.  DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES92Pioneer has adopted a policy on political 
expenditures, which is set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and is applicable 
to all Pioneer directors and employees. As 
stated in the policy, no company funds may be used for political contributions in the United States or in any foreign country, unless permitted by law, approved by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer, and then approved by either the General Counsel or Chief Compliance Officer. Pioneer employees fulfill annual 
training requirements regarding political 
contribution processes. The charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board provides for the committee’s oversight of all Pioneer political spending and lobbying activities. The committee, which is composed entirely of independent directors, receives an annual report from senior management on Pioneer political activities, including corporate contributions to issue campaigns or referenda; payments to 527 organizations, 501(c)(4) groups, and other tax-exempt organizations; dues paid to trade associations; and political action committee (PAC) contributions. Corporate Political Contributions Pioneer may make occasional corporate 
contributions to political organizations and 
campaigns whose objectives are consistent 
with our business objectives in the areas in 
which we operate. While Pioneer directors 
and employees are free to participate in the 
political process individually, they may not 
represent a personal political contribution 
as being made on behalf of the company, 
and no director or employee may seek 
reimbursement, directly or indirectly, from 
Pioneer for any political contribution.  Pioneer made the following corporate political contributions in 2019. Political Action Committees Some eligible employees contribute to PACs 
sponsored by Pioneer. The activities of the 
Pioneer PACs are subject to comprehensive 
governmental regulation, including detailed 
disclosure requirements. These disclosures are posted on the website of the Federal Election Commission or the Texas Ethics Commission, where they can be reviewed by members of the public. All distributions made from the PACs are approved by their respective boards, currently comprising senior members of management. 
All suggested distributions are reviewed to ensure they are consistent with legal limits and are 
delivered to entities eligible to receive PAC 
funds. All contributions to PACs are voluntary, 
and it is Pioneer policy that no one be favored or disadvantaged by reason of the amount of their contribution or their decision not to contribute. For additional information on political 
expenditures, visit PXD.com > Culture > Advocacy.Corporate Political ContributionsDIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND SOCIAL VALUES93Additional Information and Where to Find ItThis communication may be deemed to be solicitation material in respect of the proposed transaction between Pioneer Natural Resources Company (“Pioneer”) and Parsley Energy, Inc. (“Parsley”). The proposed transaction will be submitted to Pioneer’s stockholders and Parsley’s stockholders for their consideration. Pioneer and Parsley have filed a joint proxy statement/prospectus (the “Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus”) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) in connection with the solicitation 
of proxies by Pioneer and Parsley in connection with the proposed 
transaction. Pioneer has filed a registration statement on Form S-4 (the “Form S-4”) with the SEC, in which the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus was included. The information in the Form S-4 is not complete and may be changed. Pioneer and Parsley also intend to file other relevant documents with the SEC regarding the proposed transaction. After the Form S-4 is declared effective by the SEC, the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/
Prospectus will be mailed to Pioneer’s stockholders and Parsley’s stockholders. BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING OR INVESTMENT DECISION WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION, INVESTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF PIONEER AND INVESTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF PARSLEY ARE URGED TO READ THE 
DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION (INCLUDING ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) AND OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY DO AND WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION.The Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto and other relevant materials, and any other documents filed by Pioneer or Parsley with the SEC, may be obtained once such documents are filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov or free of charge from Pioneer at www.pxd.com or by directing a request to Pioneer’s Investor Relations Department at ir@pxd.com or free of charge from Parsley at www.parsleyenergy.com or by directing a request to 
Parsley’s Investor Relations Department at ir@parsleyenergy.com.
No Offer or SolicitationThis communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, or a solicitation of any vote or approval, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act.
Participants in the SolicitationPioneer, Parsley and certain of their respective executive officers, directors, other members of management and employees may, under the rules of the SEC, be deemed to be “participants” in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding Pioneer’s directors and executive officers is available in its Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A for its 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed with the SEC on April 9, 2020 and in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 24, 2020. Information regarding Parsley’s directors and executive officers is available in its Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A for its 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed with the SEC on April 6, 2020 and in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC 
on February 21, 2020. These documents may be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, is and will be contained in the Form S-4, the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other relevant materials relating to the proposed transaction to be filed with the SEC. Stockholders and other investors should read the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus carefully before making any voting or investment decisions.Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking InformationExcept for historical information contained herein, the statements in this 
Report are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneer’s actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of commodity prices, the impact of a widespread outbreak of an illness, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, on global and U.S. economic activity; the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof; other government regulation or action; the assumptions underlying forecasts; and environmental and weather risks, including the possible impacts of climate change. These and other risks are described in Pioneer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed thereafter and other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company may be subject to currently unforeseen risks that may have a materially adverse effect on it. Additionally, the information in this Report contains forward-looking statements related to the recently announced merger transaction between the Company and Parsley. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, in many cases, beyond the Company’s control. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, the risk that the businesses of Pioneer and Parsley will not be integrated successfully; Pioneer or Parsley may be unable to obtain governmental and regulatory approvals required for the proposed transaction, or that required governmental and regulatory 
approvals may delay the proposed transaction or result in the imposition of conditions that could reduce the anticipated benefits from the proposed transaction or cause the parties to abandon the proposed transaction; a condition to closing of the proposed transaction may not be satisfied; and the potential impact of the announcement or consummation of the proposed transaction on relationships with customers, suppliers, and competitors. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that the actual events and results 
will not be materially different than the anticipated results described in the 
forward-looking statements. Pioneer undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law.AssurancePioneer conducted an internal audit of this report to determine subject matter experts in each department provided adequate supporting documentation and data to substantiate the information disclosed in this report. A weekly audit report was provided to key contributors, and a final, comprehensive analysis was presented to the ESG Task Force at the end of the full reporting process. The Corporate Sustainability Report was then, with review and guidance from the Board of Directors, approved for publication by the ESG Task Force and Management Committee.Forward-looking StatementsThis report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as “target,” “will,” “plan,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future,” “commit,” “intend,” “potential,” “estimate,” and similar expressions that contemplate future events. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we undertake no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements and the prospects of Pioneer Natural Resources Company are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause Pioneer’s actual results in future periods to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. These and other risks are described in Pioneer’s 10-K and 10-Q Reports and other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, Pioneer may be subject to currently unforeseen risks that may have a materially adverse impact on it. Thus, we can give no assurance that our expectations will, in fact, occur.