SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Responsible Operations Complying with applicable health, safety and environmental laws, regulations and policies is only the beginning of our commitment to operating our business in a responsible manner. Pioneer maintains a proactive compliance program to identify and correct any operational deficiencies we find, working in direct cooperation with appropriate government agencies. Pioneer’s collaborative and interdisciplinary frontline efforts are led by our Health, Safety and Environmental team, which seeks continuous improvement in those key areas. Safety and Health We are dedicated to protecting the health and safety of everyone involved in and around Pioneer’s facilities and operating areas by enforcing high standards, strict corporate policies, and responsible and ethical procedures. Safety starts with solid governance and committed senior managers, and our Pioneer Corporate Safety Committee sets the direction and vision for programs in our operating areas. The heart of Pioneer’s safety program lies within the field office Central Safety Committees and safety action teams, which are responsible for evaluating safety observations, reporting and discussing safety concerns, reviewing accident investigations, assisting with field inspections, and developing and reviewing corporate standard operating procedures (SOPs). Pioneer conducts a thorough internal review before contractors are added to the Approved Contractor List. This process, along with ongoing monitoring, is supplemented by evaluating contractor safety performance via the ISNetworld platform for subscribed contractors. Safety Training and Performance By continuing to focus on creating an incident- and injury-free workplace during 2016, we were able to continue to reduce our OSHA recordable incidents. Our upstream operations had zero employee lost-time incidents. We also developed and implemented a contractor safety program companywide. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Effective training programs are designed to reduce the occurrence and severity of accidents. Our employee and contractor training programs cover accident prevention, protective equipment, safe operating practices, chemical material precaution and workplace hazards. We follow OSHA standards and regulations related to our business, and offer new-hire training and regular courses for seasoned employees and contractors. In 2016, our Training team provided more than 41,600 person-hours of HSE training to Pioneer employees and contractors and provided more than 1,600 person-hours of training on SOPs in operations and well services areas. Pioneer tracks safety performance based on requirements from OSHA, including our lost-time injury rate (LTIR). Pioneer utilizes the industry standard measurement of injuries per 200,000 person-hours worked in calculating LTIR. Pioneer has an integrated services model, and our employees are engaged in exploration and production (E&P) services, and pumping services, well services and sand mining operations. In order to benchmark ourselves against appropriate peer companies, we separate LTIR for E&P employees from LTIR for services employees. Our LTIR in 2016 was 0.00 for E&P employees, 0.25 for service employees and 0.12 for the company overall. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Safety Metrics: Lost-Time Incident Rate (LTIR) 2014  2015  2016  Total LTIR  E&P Employee LTIR  Service Company LTIR  Lost-time/200,000 person-hours  Lost-time/200,000 person-hours  Lost-time/200,000 person-hours  Vehicle Safety Safe driving is critical to a safe working environment. Our light-duty fleet vehicles are equipped with GPS tracking technology to help monitor driving practices, improve driver safety and ultimately reduce the number of incidents and injuries related to operating our vehicles. Overall, Pioneer employees drove a total of 34.6 million miles in 2016 and completed more than 5,800 person-hours of driver safety training courses. Pioneer tracks Motor Vehicle Incident Rate (MVIR), a metric more encompassing than Preventable Vehicle Accidents, to help monitor the effectiveness of fleet safety programs. Pioneer’s overall MVIR in 2016 was 0.28, meaning our employees had approximately one motor vehicle incident for every 3.6 million miles driven. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Spill Prevention and Management Pioneer dedicates substantial resources to ensuring our operations are performed in a manner that protects the environment. We believe all spills are preventable, and we train employees to prevent them. Pioneer engineers design and build facilities with spill prevention in mind to protect the environment. We invest in containment equipment, perform regular inspections and update our spill response plans to comply with regulations. We work diligently to prevent spills, respond quickly when spills occur and remediate impacted areas. We investigate all spills to determine cause and corrective actions. In 2016, we had 317 oil/condensate spills of more than 1 barrel (bbl) (42 gallons), totaling 1,958 barrels. This represents 0.0157 barrels (0.66 gallons) of oil and condensate spilled per thousand barrels produced, based on gross production. Oil and Condensate Spills and Spill Rate 0.0312 1958 573 327 317 2014  2015  2016  Spill Count  O&C Spills >1 bbl Spill Volume  Spill Rate bbl O&C spilled/million  barrels of oil equivalent (MMBOE)  04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Climate Change Statement and Restricted Carbon Scenario Analysis Climate change is an important concern for Pioneer and our stakeholders. As such, our strategy is to proactively manage our environmental footprint and limit emissions of methane and other greenhouse gases from our operations. We are committed to working with industry and communities to address our impacts to the environment while ensuring the supply of sustainable, abundant and affordable energy. In addition to our efforts to limit emissions from our activities, we assess the potential impact of growing alternative energy sources and climate change policy on global fossil fuel demand and Pioneer's long-term business prospects. A summary of this assessment is included below. As part of Pioneer’s strategic planning process, management prepares and reviews with the Board of Directors long-term scenarios under varying assumptions to stress test the company’s business outlook. When evaluating possible future business scenarios, Pioneer considers several published energy forecasts and analyses by leading official agencies such as, but not limited to: • The U.S Energy Information Administration’s (EIA) International Energy Outlook • The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ (OPEC) World Oil Outlook, and • The International Energy Agency’s (IEA) World Energy Outlook Pioneer also engages private commodity market analysis firms to provide the company with industry and economic projections, which are utilized to test management’s assumptions of future business conditions. The growth potential of the Permian Basin in West Texas was confirmed in November of 2016 when the U.S. Geological Survey identified the Basin’s Wolfcamp shale as the largest continuous oil field in the U.S. The Permian Basin’s productivity is also demonstrated by the fact that it is the only major basin where U.S. oil shale production has continued to grow since the downturn in oil prices began in 2014 (EIA, Drilling Productivity Report, 2017). Looking to the future, industry estimates indicate the Permian Basin has more than 150 billion barrels of oil equivalent of recoverable resource. 04. SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Pioneer is the largest acreage holder in the Midland Basin, located on the eastern side of the Permian, with approximately 800,000 gross acres and is therefore in a strong position to benefit from its quality assets. In order to capitalize on this significant resource potential, more than 95 percent of Pioneer’s current and expected future capital expenditures are directed to the Midland Basin where — assuming the current $50 oil price environment and using current drilling and completion technology — Pioneer holds more than 20,000 drilling sites with economic returns. When compared with other onshore U.S. liquid-rich basins, the Midland Basin is among the best-in-class with an oil price breakeven cost of approximately $24 per barrel as of mid-2017. (See Figure 1.) FIGURE ˘: Oil Breakevens by Basin Source: Citigroup research report published on 9/13/2017; assumes commodity prices of $50/BBL oil and $3.00/Million British Thermal Units (MMBTU) Additionally, Pioneer is recognized as a leading low-cost operator when compared to other North American oil shale players in the industry. (See Figure 2.) Source: Citi Research — Breakevens reflect each respective company's production-weighted oil assets (at $3MMBTU gas price). Companies include: APC, CDEV, CHK, CLR, CPE, DVN, ECA, HES, MRO, NBL, NFX, OAS, PE, SRCI, WLL, WPX, XEG, XOG. Pioneer expects to remain a leading low-cost operator by leveraging the company’s supply chain, vertically integrated services and new technologies to develop its prolific Midland Basin asset highlighted in Figure 3. FIGURE ˘: Pioneer Permian Basin Acreage 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS To assess the potential impact of growing alternative sources and climate change policies, Pioneer considered the scenarios set out in the broadly referenced IEA 2016 World Energy Outlook.* World Energy Outlook describes three scenarios, each of which assumes different levels of climate change policy and regulation. World Energy Outlook’s Current Policies Scenario assumes a continuation of existing policies; the New Policies Scenario accounts for broad policy commitments and plans that have been announced by countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and phase out fossil fuels; the World Energy Outlook’s 450 Scenario constructs an energy consumption pathway aiming to limit global increase in temperature to 2 degrees Celsius by restricting the concentration of greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere to less than 450 parts per million of carbon dioxide (CO2). Pioneer believes World Energy Outlook’s 450 scenario represents an ambitious reduction of future global oil demand, and, as such, serves as a robust test of the company’s ability to efficiently deploy capital and profitably develop and produce its resources in an environment of significant demand constraint. Figure 4 below projects global oil demand in each of World Energy Outlook’s three scenarios, and the likely basins that would satisfy that global demand. This analysis assumes that the relative output of basins producing today, and the sources with lowest available breakeven costs are likely to satisfy that demand. * For future reports, PXD will continue to assess available demand forecasts to determine which are most relevant to our scenario analysis. F I G U R E ˘ :  2040 Production by Region — Cumulative Cost Curve  120  Current Policies Scenario  L/D) 100  MBBNew Policies Scenario  d (M80   Other  man  East Asia  n and De60  450 Scenario  South America Russia  ctio  North America  Crude Oil Produ40   Middle East  20 IEA 2040 Oil Price Breakevens ($/BBL) Source:  IEA's 2016 World Energy Outlook and Rystad Energy 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Significance of 2040: The benefit of assessing potential oil demand and production in the year 2040 is that it allows Pioneer, its investors, and various stakeholders to evaluate the long-term impacts that political, economic, and technological factors might have on oil demand over an extended period. Scenario Constraints:  The varying levels of oil demand and associated World Energy Outlook oil prices in 2040 are represented in the overlapping shaded boxes and correspond to the socio-economic parameters outlined by World Energy Outlook’s three scenarios. The 450 Scenario would have the greatest impact on oil demand, leading to a projected decrease to 73 million barrels of oil per day (MMBOPD) in 2040. Comparatively, the New Policies forecast projects oil demand ranging from 74 MMBOPD to 103 MMBOPD in 2040. Finally, the Current Policy Scenario results in demand of 116 MMBOPD in 2040. Cost Curve:  Overlaying the three World Energy Outlook 2040 scenarios shown in Figure 4 is a relative cost curve based upon Rystad Energy data that highlights production volumes grouped by current breakeven price and geographic region. Each position along the curve represents a segment of additional oil production that becomes commercially viable in response to an increase in price. Using this methodology, the lowest cost resources are considered to be developed first; however, it is assumed each region’s respective position on the cost curve will remain relative and thus comparable in the long term. The Pioneer Natural Resources Story:  As indicated in Figure 2, the $24/BBL breakeven cost attributed to Pioneer by Citi Research is well within the borders of the 450 scenario, indicating the company is in a strong position to produce oil and gas economically and help meet global demand for oil. This assessment is consistent with the “2 Degrees of Separation” analysis compiled by The Carbon Tracker Initiative, which examined the oil sector’s economic viability in a carbon-constrained regulatory environment. Their analysis found that Pioneer is among the least exposed oil producers to 2025 carbon-related capital expenditures (Carbon Tracker, 2016). The study also notes that companies like Pioneer, which have a relatively low percentage of unneeded capital expenditures, are more aligned with a 2-degree warming limit. This reinforces our belief that we are in a strong position to produce oil and gas economically in a carbon-constrained scenario. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Emissions Management Pioneer is committed to achieving compliance with all applicable federal and state requirements and going beyond compliance by developing proactive strategies to reduce emissions. Additionally, the Pioneer Health, Safety and Environmental team interprets new and proposed federal and state air quality rules in order to foster dialogue with regulators, industry peers and trade groups, and facilitate understanding of how these regulatory changes can impact the oil and gas industry. We pride ourselves in planning ahead for these changes.  Flaring and Vapor Recovery Pioneer captures emissions from oil well and gas well completions in all of our assets — a process commonly referred to as green completions — and we recover emissions from condensate tanks during the completion phase. This is accomplished by constructing necessary facility infrastructure and permanent production equipment ahead of associated well completions. By routing flowback emissions directly to facilities and pipelines, they are captured in the completions process. Green completion flowback is one way that Pioneer utilizes gas recovery in our operations. Pioneer also minimizes the flaring of gas in all of its operations; exceptions are related to safety concerns during emergency or upset conditions. Even though flares are needed in our facility operations for these purposes, Pioneer prefers capturing and routing our oil and gas products to pipelines. Pioneer installs vapor recovery units at all of its horizontal well tank batteries. At tank batteries handling high production volumes, Pioneer installs multiple vapor recovery units to manage high gas volumes. These units operate by using Pioneer-produced gas to power compressors that remove valuable vapors and gases (including methane) from the storage vessels at many of our facilities and routing them to pipelines. This strategy allows Pioneer to capture potential facility emissions and recover them as part of our value chain. Vapor recovery units are now part of the standard horizontal well tank battery design in our largest asset area, the Permian Basin. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS An additional benefit of putting oil and gas products directly into pipelines is that it reduces the need to haul our product with tanker trucks. Tanker truck loading can create an emission source through the displacement of tank vapors. When tanker truck loading is necessary, however, Pioneer uses flares to control the resulting emissions. Gas-Driven Pneumatic Controllers Pioneer promotes environmentally sound operations practices by reducing air emissions associated with high-bleed, gas-driven pneumatic devices. Pneumatic devices powered by pressurized gas are a process control element in oil and gas facility engineering, and are components of compressors, separators, pressure vessels and piping. Pioneer has replaced, modified or retrofitted all existing high-bleed, gas-driven pneumatic controllers to low-emitting devices. Additional methane emission reductions can be achieved by converting these pneumatic devices to operate on a compressed instrument air system. An instrument air system replaces the pressurized gas source with compressed atmospheric air, eliminating methane emissions and providing additional safety benefits. In 2016, our Permian, South Texas and Texas Panhandle asset teams improved operational efficiency and reduced pneumatic device greenhouse gas emissions through projects that converted onsite gas-driven pneumatic controllers to instrument air systems at more than 60 locations. Emission Reduction through Innovation Pioneer engineers and field personnel proactively analyzed and improved our approach to common industry practices in pipeline pigging, compressor maintenance and storage tank cleaning. Historically, as part of procedures to safely perform each of these tasks, gases within these components were “blown down” (i.e., depressurized through the venting of compressor vessels to the atmosphere). Over the past several years, new and innovative equipment configurations and procedures allow Pioneer to capture these previously released gases and reroute them back into the gas value chain. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Pioneer operates 800 miles of pipeline in the Texas Panhandle. As part of our operations, spherical balls called “pigs” clean those lines. Every time a pig is launched or received, the pressurized gas line is opened and there is a small release of gas. To capture these emissions, Pioneer developed a process to drop the pressure before the line is opened and enlarge the launching and receiving barrels. This procedure minimizes emissions by reducing the frequency of line openings. With a similar approach, our Permian team has altered the regular preventative maintenance process on gas lift compressors. As part of this process, compressor pressure vessels must be depressurized. In order to capture the gases lost during this process, the pressure vessel gases are now rerouted to sales pipelines or the inlet suction on other operating compression units, rather than being released into the atmosphere. This creates a safer working environment, significantly reduces uncontrolled air emissions and can result in increased revenue. From time to time, oil and condensate storage tanks can accumulate a buildup of solid material on the bottom of some storage tanks. The past process to safely open and clean the interior of a storage tank required the transferring of liquid and gas contents, but all gases could not be captured. Our Western Asset Team developed a storage tank cleaning method that does not require an atmospheric opening of the tank to perform this same task. Through a process of flushing water through modified systems, the tank bottom buildup is entrained in water, which is then discharged into a tanker truck. Since the process occurs within the storage tank fluid column, no gases are released. The effluent from this process is then transported away from the facility for proper disposal. This method can now be applied to other storage tanks with similar operational settings and need for this type of maintenance. Leak Detection and Repair In 2011, Pioneer began implementing a leak detection and repair (LDAR) program that our lease operators continue to use today as part of normal facility inspections. We utilize various techniques such as audio, visual, and olfactory inspections, optical gas imaging cameras, and Remote Methane Leak Detectors™ across all of Pioneer’s operations to monitor facilities for fugitive emissions. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Our Colorado operations LDAR program has been further developed to meet the specific requirements of the 2014 Colorado Regulation 7 requirements. Colorado’s Regulation 7 requires oil and gas producers to inspect and repair hydrocarbon leaks from components at all existing and newly constructed well production facilities and compressor stations, followed by ongoing, regular inspections dedicated to leak detection, repair and reporting. Our companywide program was updated in 2016 to comply with EPA New Source Performance Standards OOOOa requirements which enacted an LDAR program for new or modified upstream facilities and compressor stations. Pioneer employs a team of thermographers who use optical gas imaging cameras and leak detectors to conduct surveys at our facilities, such as well sites, tank batteries, compressor stations, pipelines, and midstream facilities. Optical gas imaging cameras utilize infrared sensors to allow our thermographers to locate emissions not identifiable through other inspection methods. Each Pioneer thermographer receives biennial optical gas imaging training. The three-day certification training is designed to teach the proper safety practices, methods to set up and operate the imaging cameras, how to identify what gases can be found with the technology, and the different environmental conditions that affect gas leak detection. Remote Methane Leak Detectors™ are laser-based methane detectors that can quickly and efficiently detect leaks up to 100 feet away. When the infrared laser beam is transmitted from the device, some of the laser light is reflected back to an internal sensor, which can be used to deduce a methane concentration. Leak detector training is provided to inspectors in accordance with manufacturer guidelines and regulatory requirements. Pioneer owns nine optical gas imaging cameras and two Remote Methane Leak Detectors™. In 2016, more than 13,190 optical gas imaging surveys were conducted at Pioneer wellheads, tank batteries, and compressor stations, with an additional 130 miles of pipeline inspected. Facilities are currently prioritized for surveys based upon the potential for fugitive emissions to occur, and annual optical gas imaging surveys are established as the baseline for our facilities. Some facilities have been identified as having a higher potential for emissions (e.g. larger tank batteries and compressor stations), and are surveyed at a semi-annual or quarterly frequency. In addition to our standard LDAR program, Pioneer is testing continuous emissions monitoring systems on several tank batteries in the Permian Basin. These monitoring systems are designed to quickly detect and alert Pioneer to fugitive methane emissions, which may help us to quickly locate unexpected emissions and better direct our LDAR program. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Understanding Emissions Modern industry technologies and facility designs have dramatically outpaced the original efficiencies and design considerations within EPA emissions datasets and models. As the oil and gas industry continues innovating engineering and emissions management practices, new, more accurate data is needed to drive our decision-making process. Pioneer has initiated a program to study emissions, including methane, from our field operations. We actively participate in multi-operator national studies, which require collaboration among peer operators, regulators, academia, industry trade groups and environmental non-governmental organizations. For these studies, Pioneer provides direct access to production sites and equipment, and assists in the design of safe-sampling protocols. The participation of Pioneer and other producers contributes to the development of methods for safely measuring methane emissions directly at the source and facilitates scientific analysis where little empirical data previously existed. Currently, we are partnering with Colorado State University to better understand compressor station emissions in the gathering and boosting segment of the industry. Findings from these studies will further enhance our ability to identify opportunities for emissions reductions through best practices and technological solutions. Greenhouse Gases, Emission and Methane Intensities Pioneer discloses its EPA-reported emissions in this report due to the specific reporting assumptions, applicable source category equipment, engineering calculations and emission factors set forth in the applicable regulations. With the significant changes required by the EPA in 2016, we have selected 2016 as our emissions base year. We continue to develop a more comprehensive emissions inventory. Pioneer reported 2.78 million metric tonnes of GHG emissions (CO2 equivalent) to the EPA in 2016. Based on this value, our 2016 GHG emissions intensity was 22.32 metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent per 1,000 barrels of gross oil-equivalent production (CO2 equivalent/MBOE). Our 2016 methane emission intensity was 6.14 metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent/MBOE. Pioneer emissions reporting follows EPA GHG Reporting Program requirements that prescribe the methodologies to quantify GHG emissions, including methane, for each emission source category. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS WATER CONSERVATION AND PROTECTION Water Sourcing The amount of water used for well completions varies by well length, completion design and the geology of the formations targeted by each well. In 2016, Pioneer’s South Texas and Permian asset areas used, on average, 0.26 and 0.34 barrels of water per BOE expected from wells drilled, respectively. It is helpful to convert this number into “water intensity” — gallons of water per million British thermal units (MMBTU) of energy. This helps compare our water usage to that of other leading power sources. By this calculation, our South Texas and Permian asset areas in 2016 used, on average, 1.93 and 2.29 gallons of water per MMBTU, respectively. We understand how vital water is to any community. As our industry drills longer lateral wells and increases the number of hydraulically fractured stages in each well, water use per well increases. However, more oil and gas is recovered from these wells, reducing overall water intensity. Water conservation is a Pioneer priority, and we continually pursue sustainable and diverse sources of non-potable or non-fresh water for drilling and completions of oil and gas wells. Our comprehensive approach includes utilizing effluent water (wastewater), brackish water and recycled produced water. To effectively manage this critical resource, we formed a dedicated water management subsidiary, Pioneer Water Management, LLC (PWM) in 2014. PWM is responsible for the company’s water sourcing, transportation and sales to internal and external customers. PWM is focused on reducing the company’s use of fresh water, mitigating the disposal of produced water through water recycling efforts, reducing water acquisition and transportation costs, and minimizing water trucking on public roadways. 04 . SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Fresh Water:  We recognize fresh water is a valuable resource, and Pioneer is committed to innovative water stewardship. While there is no immediate, economic solution to completely eliminate the use of fresh water in our operations, Pioneer has found ways to minimize freshwater consumption, allowing this precious resource to be preserved for the communities where we live and operate. Additionally, we are piloting and evaluating various technologies for water conservation and creating more efficient water transportation and storage methods to limit water loss. Reclaimed Wastewater:  Pioneer has uniquely collaborated with local cities through mutually beneficial, public/private water-sourcing transactions. In 2014, Pioneer entered into an agreement with the city of Odessa, Texas, and, in 2016, signed a contract with the city of Midland, Texas, to purchase effluent water for use in operations. On January 20, 2016, Pioneer opened a 20-mile, $25 million effluent water infrastructure project to both reduce fresh water use and cut costs for the mutual benefit of Pioneer and the city of Odessa. Sourcing of the municipal effluent water, which is otherwise being disposed of, will save millions of gallons of fresh water throughout the Permian Basin. PWM has constructed more than 20 miles of pipeline from Odessa’s Bob Derrington Water Reclamation Plant in Midland County to a PWM water supply facility. The system is designed to flow 150,000-200,000 barrels of water per day (BWPD) at peak capacity. INNOVATIVE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS WITH ODESSA AND MIDLAND On January 20, 2016, Pioneer opened an innovative infrastructure project with the city of Odessa, Texas — construction of a 20-mile, $25 million pipeline to send effluent water from the city’s wastewater treatment facility for use in our drilling and completions operations. The project is the key component of an 11-year, $117 million wastewater sales agreement between Pioneer and the city. This project not only reduces Pioneer’s use of fresh water, but also curtails the number of trucks needed to deliver water to the company’s facilities, minimizing industrial traffic in the region. The idea for this industry-leading collaboration came from Pioneer’s dedicated subsidiary, Pioneer Water Management, LLC (PWM). “This project is the right thing to do for the environment, and it really is a win-win for the residents of Odessa and for Pioneer. We hope this agreement serves as a role model for our industry and the Permian Basin.” —     Todd Abbott, President, Pioneer Water Management, LLC Pictured left to right:  Tim Dove (President and CEO, Pioneer), David R. Turner (Mayor, City of Odessa) and Brooks Landgraf (State Representative, District 81) participate in a ceremonial turning of the valve. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Pioneer’s Odessa/Midland Water Distribution System Benefits to the local community and region include: • An innovative and regular revenue stream for the city for a water resource that would otherwise go unused; • A long-term supply of water to our drilling and completions operations across the basin; • A reduced need for fresh water, while making productive use of a non-potable resource; and • A significant reduction in traffic congestion, since Pioneer no longer solely relies on trucked deliveries of water to drilling and completions sites. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Brackish Water:  The Santa Rosa Aquifer, a brackish water formation containing water too high in salinity for drinking or agricultural usage, lays thousands of feet above the Permian Basin’s oil shale plays. PWM geologists and engineers continue to evaluate the unique reservoir’s large brackish water supply through geologic mapping, logging analysis, well optimizations and other subsurface techniques used in both the water and oil and gas industries. Using these tools, PWM is able to economically drill high-producing brackish water wells to support our operations. Reused Produced Water:  As part of the production of oil, condensate and gas, Pioneer generates what is referred to as “produced water.” Once water comes into contact with oil, condensate or gas in the production cycle, regardless of the type of water, it is considered produced water. Produced water is generally a mixture of water, naturally occurring dissolved solids, and a small amount of products used in the oil and gas production process. As part of the fluid-handling lifecycle, Pioneer disposes of fluids, including produced water, from oil and gas production operations directly or through the use of third parties. PWM is continually investigating economically viable solutions for produced water reuse in its operations to reduce the need for produced water disposal and provide another significant alternative to freshwater use. Water Protection Pioneer designs, builds, and maintains its wells to protect groundwater quality during and after wellbore construction. For decades, state regulators have imposed strict requirements for how oil and gas wells must be constructed. Each well must be encased in multiple layers of protective industrial-grade steel casing, which is surrounded by cement to create a secondary safeguard for underground fresh water. In 2016, we tested the surface casing integrity on 229 wells drilled and plan to test all future wells. This highly regulated safety system – and the thousands of feet of rock between the hydrocarbon and freshwater zones – keeps oil and gas out of the fresh water, and fresh water out of the oil and gas. For more than 70 years, the industry has successfully drilled and produced wells using these drilling techniques. As additional protection, Pioneer installs pressure gauges during completions to monitor and test the space between the inner and outer well casing (annular space). In 2016, 100 percent of Pioneer’s completed wells were tested in this manner. 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS FracFocus.org Pioneer has been an industry leader on chemical use disclosures. To help address questions about hydraulic fracturing, Pioneer joined industry peers and regulators to create the website FracFocus.org, a public registry of reported chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing is important. Pioneer actively supports this national initiative and complies with state regulations on reporting. As of December 31, 2016, Pioneer disclosed on FracFocus.org the chemicals used in more than 3,530 wells drilled. While the FracFocus registry is a comprehensive disclosure of chemicals used in the completions process, some commercial products have unique properties that are protected as proprietary information under trade secret provisions under state laws in which the chemical is used. However, for more responsible product sourcing, Pioneer Pumping Services (PPS), our subsidiary completions company, has implemented a supplier chemical pre-qualification system that reviews information for each chemical PPS uses, including chemical details deemed by the supplier to be proprietary information. In addition to this level of scrutiny in the selection of chemicals used in the PPS completion process, PPS has adopted a policy not to use diesel fuel as an additive in hydraulic fracturing fluids. LAND MANAGEMENT Reducing Our Footprint 04.  SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMS Oil operations require clearing areas of land for water storage ponds, development sites, central gathering points and rights-of-way, which can leave land barren and create erosion issues if not properly reclaimed. It is important to reseed impacted areas of lease properties to stabilize the ground and restore native grasses. Along these lines, using native seed mixtures to reseed land is best, as non-native vegetation can overrun an area and adversely affect the ecosystem by not providing the right food supply for inhabiting wildlife. For active operational sites, Pioneer works with regulators and landowners to minimize surface impacts from our operations. One key initiative to reduce our surface footprint is drilling multiple wellbores from a single location. In 2016, we drilled from more than 98 locations utilizing multiple wellbores. This practice allows Pioneer to not only significantly reduce the area of impact by the pad construction, but to also minimize the roadways and easements, compared to those required to support single-pad drilling. Pioneer continues to innovate in the area of multi-well pad drilling that reduces the overall area of disturbance. RESEEDING LAND WITH NATIVE SEED MIXTURES Pioneer’s South Texas Asset Team has partnered with the Caesar Kleberg Wildlife Research Institute of Texas A&M University-Kingsville to restore impacted land with native seed mixtures. Since 2011, production of native seed mixtures in South Texas has quadrupled. Prior to this initiative, native seed mixtures were not commercially available. Now, Caesar Kleberg Wildlife Research Institute estimates Pioneer funding has reseeded approximately 200,000 acres in South Texas with native vegetation. According to Caesar Kleberg Wildlife Research Institute, by making more foundation seed available and markedly increasing production through efforts of this project, unit price for seeds has decreased by 50 percent, from an average price of $160 per-acre seed cost in 2012 to just $82 per-acre seed cost by 2015. 