GOVERNANCEPioneer’s Board of Directors and 
executive management team recognize that robust corporate governance ensures alignment with the long-term interests of our shareholders and strengthens our culture, provides accountability and, 
ultimately, improves the sustainability 
of our organization.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Pioneer governance practices are described in our Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s assessment of major risks, including those related to sustainable development, and the measures taken to manage 
such risks.
Pioneer views sustainable development as a 
multidisciplinary approach to our business, balancing economic growth, environmental stewardship and social responsibility. In addition, the Board takes an 
active role in the design and implementation of our ESG strategy, while working with management to 
cultivate our HSE culture.
Since our 2020 Sustainability Report, Pioneer and 
our shareholders have welcomed three new Directors 
to our Board:   
  • A.R. Alameddine – former Lead Director, 
    Parsley Energy 
  • Lori George Billingsley – Global Chief Diversity, 
     Equity and Inclusion Officer, The Coca-Cola Company     • Matthew Gallagher – former CEO, Parsley Energy 
To view detailed responsibilities for each Board 
committee, go to PXD.com > Culture > Governance.
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMANGOVERNANCEiii13NEW DIRECTORS Lori George BillingsleyGlobal Chief Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion Officer, 
The Coca-Cola Company A.R. AlameddineFormer Lead Director, Parsley Energy Matthew GallagherFormer CEO, Parsley EnergyHSE COMMITTEE
The committee oversees broad company HSE and 
sustainability practices, including:  • Management efforts to create a culture of safety and  
     environmental protection  • Review and approval of Pioneer HSE goals  • Periodic performance improvement progress reports In addition to providing oversight of our HSE practices, 
the committee members periodically visit Pioneer operational facilities and speak with employees, learning firsthand about Pioneer field operations and what our Board members can do to better support HSE processes. Additional committee oversight actions relevant to ESG include the following topics:
HSE Risk Management – Reviewing the management of current and emerging HSE- and climate change-
related issues, including trends in legislation and 
proposed regulations that would affect the company. Providing policy oversight with respect to risk assessment and risk management arising from HSE practices, 
including related operational cybersecurity risks (for 
example, field automation and communication systems).
HSE Management Systems – Reviewing Pioneer 
HSE management systems, including processes to monitor compliance with applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements.
HSE Goals – Reviewing and approving the company’s 
HSE goals and monitoring performance toward those goals, including evaluation of compensation awards 
based on performance.
HSE Aspects of Sustainable Development – 
Periodically receiving reports from management on 
corporate security activities undertaken in support 
of field HSE and sustainable development practices.

HSE Continuous Improvement – Monitoring 
management efforts to create a culture of continuous improvement in the company’s safety and environmental protection practices. Receiving regular reports from management on HSE, ESG and sustainable 
development actions.
Board of Directors Communication – Making 
regular reports to the Board about the committee’s activities and decisions.
NOMINATING AND CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEEThe Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees risks related to governance structures and processes, including Board and committee composition and succession planning; director independence; and Pioneer charitable contributions, political spending 
and lobbying activities.
The committee oversight responsibility includes assisting  the Board in identifying, evaluating, and monitoring social, governance, political, human rights and public policy trends, issues, and concerns, along with other sustainability and corporate responsibility matters that could affect the business and reputation of Pioneer, 
including climate change-related risks and opportunities. Information is reported to the Board for consideration and potential adoption of recommended actions.
Charitable Contributions, Political Spending and Lobbying Activities – The committee provides oversight of Pioneer charitable contributions, political spending and lobbying activities. Oversight includes receiving reports annually (or more frequently) 
on Pioneer charitable contributions, political and 
lobbying spending, and company-related political action committees.
Related-Party Transactions Oversight – The 
committee, comprised of independent directors, must approve, ratify or reject related-party transactions.
GOVERNANCE14COMPENSATION AND LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEEThe Compensation and Leadership Development Committee has oversight of our human capital 
management, including: Pioneer succession planning and talent development; strategies and activities 
for executive officers and key executives; strategies, initiatives and programs relative to our company 
culture; talent recruitment, development and 
retention; employee engagement; diversity, equity 
and inclusion; and general health and welfare benefits.Starting in 2021, Pioneer revised executive leadership’s annual cash bonus incentive program to increase the annual incentive compensation weighting for HSE and ESG metrics from 10% to 20%, added a goal for cash return on capital invested along with return on capital employed, and removed goals for production and reserves growth. Additionally, Pioneer’s ESG targets are now quantitative elements within the company’s compensation program and will be considered as part of annual performance-based outcomes. 
AUDIT COMMITTEEThe Audit Committee assists the Board with overseeing financial and accounting risks, reporting processes, policies and practices, controls, and audits, as defined in the committee charter. Additionally, the Audit Committee oversees the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Rules on Auditor Independence, which requires that “lead” and “concurring” audit 
partners rotate off an engagement after a maximum 
of five years in either capacity and, upon rotation, must be off the engagement for five years.The committee also oversees the company’s 
cybersecurity risks as they relate to financial risk exposures and the security of data and information technology systems.  
SUSTAINABILITY AND CLIMATE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEETo better reflect the expanded breadth of the committee beyond sustainability reporting over the last two years, the Board has renamed the Sustainability Reporting Committee, which will now be known as the 
Sustainability and Climate Oversight Committee. 
The Chairman of the Board leads the Sustainability 
and Climate Oversight Committee, with the chairpersons of the Board’s four main standing committees serving 
as members. The committee meets regularly with leaders 
and employees to provide oversight and strategic direction to those responsible for managing and 
implementing targets, goals, actions and reporting 
pertaining to sustainability and climate matters. 

The Sustainability and Climate Oversight Committee oversees our public disclosures regarding climate change and ESG matters and has recently formalized additional responsibilities including: ESG Trends, Risks and Opportunities – Monitoring environmental, social, governance, political, human rights and public policy trends, issues and concerns, along with other sustainability, corporate responsibility and climate change-related matters that could affect Pioneer’s business. Climate-related Risk Management – Providing 
oversight for Pioneer’s climate-related risk processes and mitigation plans.Goals and Targets – Coordinating and providing 
input with other committees of the Board and 
executive leadership in setting performance 
metrics used to monitor our ESG-related goals 
and targets, such as emission-reduction targets.Recommendations to the Board – Reporting to 
the Board for its consideration and adoption any 
recommendations for actions to be taken by the 
Board or Pioneer.BOARD DIVERSITYPioneer is committed to having a Board with diverse backgrounds, skills and professional experience in areas relevant to Pioneer’s business and strategy. 
The Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee is responsible for identifying, evaluating and recommending nominees for election at annual shareholder meetings, and filling vacancies or 
making Board additions that may occur between 
annual meetings.




In the event the committee chooses to recruit 
potential nominees to join the Board, our Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that, in addition to considering a candidate’s skills and experience, the committee will consider factors like diversity, 
differences in viewpoints, background, education, gender, race or ethnicity, age, and other individual qualifications and attributes. 



The committee will use its best efforts to include qualified candidates in the pool of director candidates and will instruct any third-party firms assisting with the search to include candidates with diverse characteristics.
This report includes Board demographic information in the Social Impacts sections of this report and the 2021 Sustainability Performance Data Table.
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMANGOVERNANCEiii15BOARD OF DIRECTORSJ. Kenneth ThompsonChairman of the Board, 
President and CEO, 
Pacific Star Energy LLCLori George BillingsleyGlobal Chief Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion Officer, 
The Coca-Cola Company A.R. AlameddineFormer Lead Director, 
Parsley EnergyPhillip A. GobeChairman,
ProPetro Holding Corp.Edison C. BuchananFormer Managing Director, Credit Suisse First BostonMatthew GallagherFormer CEO, Parsley EnergyLarry R. GrillotRetired Dean, Mewbourne College of Earth and Energy, University of OklahomaStacy P. MethvinRetired Vice President, 
Shell Oil CompanyRoyce W. MitchellExecutive ConsultantPhoebe A. WoodRetired Vice Chairman 
and Chief Financial Officer, Brown-Forman CorporationFrank A. RischRetired Vice President 
and Treasurer, 
Exxon Mobil CorporationScott D. SheffieldChief Executive OfficerThe Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s 
assessment of major risks, including those related to sustainable development, and the measures taken to manage such risks.Michael D. WortleyChief Legal Officer, 
Reata Pharmaceuticals, Inc.GOVERNANCE16EXECUTIVE ESG LEADERSHIP
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEESustainability starts with solid governance and committed leadership. The Pioneer Management Committee includes the chief executive officer, president and chief operating officer, chief financial officer, and 12 other senior officers. This core leadership team is responsible for establishing and executing the company’s strategy as overseen by the Board, including assessing climate-
related risks and opportunities. A key function of the Management Committee is annual HSE and ESG performance reviews. Consistent with all Pioneer employees, members of the Management Committee have financial incentives through our annual bonus program, focused on continuous improvements in the areas of health and safety, air emissions and climate issues, among others. During annual goal setting, management defines, with input and approval from the Board, measures of success for each goal, in order to objectively evaluate performance. This proactive, incentive-based approach focuses on key HSE and ESG goals that ultimately position Pioneer to achieve long-term objectives and targets.
ESG Task ForceEstablished in 2020, the ESG Task Force comprises a subset of the Management Committee, officers and key leaders from various disciplines across the company. Pioneer’s ESG Task Force is responsible for shaping our long-term ESG strategy and overseeing Pioneer corporate ESG goals and related reporting. The Task Force ensures project resources are available and provides strategic direction and expert advice, including reviewing and approving the Sustainability Report content and relevant publications. ESG Task Force meetings occur monthly or as needed. The priority 
of the Task Force in 2021 was assessing, developing and progressing the following goals that are expected to align Pioneer’s ESG practices with stakeholder 
feedback and industry-leading practices, including:  • Increasing additional Board ESG oversight  • Evaluating a long-term net zero ambition, 
    complemented by interim emission-intensity 
    targets for GHG, methane and flaring intensity  • Aligning Pioneer risk management and 
    decision-making processes with TCFD and     Sustainability Accounting Standards Board   
    (SASB) principles  • Driving strategic and operational activities in the 
     company to position Pioneer to meet its long-term 
     ESG continuous improvement targets  • Confirming the accuracy of data collection and    
     reporting of key ESG measures, particularly for 
     GHG emissions (and its constituent parts), including 
     2020 emissions-target performance tracking  • Progressing our Supply Chain due diligence on the 
     performance of our contractors, suppliers and 
     service-providers related to ESG and human rights  • Commissioning and completing an internal audit 
     review of the 2021 Sustainability Report  • Commissioning and completing the 2021 Climate 
     Risk Report to be published later this year, including 
     additional TCFD implementation since last year
EXECUTIVE HSE COMMITTEEPioneer’s Executive HSE Committee (HSEC) sets the company’s HSE vision and strategy for our operations. Executive leadership incorporates ESG objectives into annual HSE goal-setting sessions for all operational business units, and tracks and reports progress to the Management Committee and the Board HSE Committee. Executive, technical and field staff participate in the cross-functional committee. The committee convenes monthly to manage HSE issues, regulatory compliance and related opportunities, providing quarterly updates to the Board HSE Committee. The development and implementation of HSEC initiatives lie with seven 
subcommittees that work to enhance our HSE programs:  GOVERNANCELETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN17iiiENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENTPioneer utilizes a comprehensive enterprise risk 
management process to identify, assess, manage and report our risks and opportunities, with the objective of aligning our risk management policies and procedures with our strategy. 
The Board oversees Pioneer’s enterprise risk management program, while the Management Committee evaluates, 
manages and executes day-to-day management activities across the major risk categories comprised of strategic, general business and industry, operational, financial, reputational, HSE, regulatory, and physical and transitional 
climate-related risks. Key business and other relevant risk subcategories are tracked and monitored in a detailed enterprise risk management matrix that aligns those risks with the appropriate management oversight processes and practices. An annual assessment of these risks is supplemented by quarterly, or as needed, updates on selected issues.
Our enterprise risk management process is 
summarized below: Company strategy – Align company goals and risk identification with the strategic objectives of the 
Management Committee and Board of Directors
Risk Identification – Identify uncertainties that could impact the achievement of business objectives
Risk Assessment – Evaluate risks identified and 
possible impact to the company
Risk Response – Determine risk mitigation plans and responses to transfer, tolerate, terminate or otherwise address identified risksMonitor and Report – Report risks in the enterprise risk management matrix and continuously monitor risks and associated responses.
Risks are rated and plotted within an enterprise risk management matrix according to how significant the risk is, how likely the risk will occur/impact the business and how quickly the risk event could occur with current controls/strategies in place.

Each principal risk identified has an assigned owner, generally an officer of the company whose responsibilities are most impacted by the potential risk or whose 
function aligns with the mitigation of the risk. Each owner is responsible for managing the overall risk 
and the associated mitigation plan. Additionally, the company reviews each principal risk for associated climate-related risk. Potential climate-related risks 
are further divided into transition risks that stem from the world’s transition to a lower-carbon economy or 
physical risks that stem from acute and chronic 
physical impacts of climate change.

Our Internal Audit organization facilitates an annual risk identification and assessment process that includes input from all business groups and corporate functions through surveys and interviews. During this process, 
new risks are identified and discussed based on industry and regulatory developments, stakeholder engagement 
and insights from external experts. Additionally, risk ratings, the likelihood and potential impact of all identified and assigned risks, as well as mitigation plans, are reassessed and updated by the owners. 
The updated enterprise risk management matrix 
is then distributed to the Management Committee 
for a holistic review to achieve alignment on risk identification, assessment and response. Following review by the Management Committee, the updated enterprise risk management matrix is presented to the Board. Although the risk identification and assessment process is formally executed on an annual basis, the enterprise risk management program is embedded into our day-to-day culture and the risk assessment, along with supplemental monitoring on selected issues, and 
is updated throughout the year as needed. GOVERNANCE18Our 2021 TCFD-aligned evaluation of climate-related risks will be presented as part of the Climate Risk 
Report to be published later in the fourth quarter.  

Emergency and Crisis ManagementAs part of our Emergency and Crisis Management program, key Pioneer personnel at all levels are 
trained to address emergencies or crises following 
our Emergency/ Crisis Management Plan. The plan defines the systems, protocols and decision-making tools that could impact Pioneer during an emergency. Our operations are entirely within areas of 24-hour coverage by public, regional or local emergency 
response organizations. In the event of an incident 
that immediately threatens the safety of people, 
Pioneer employees are delegated authority to 
communicate warnings to everyone at potential risk. Additional incident information is provided through our Corporate Communications department.Emergency management planning prepares us to carry out functions necessary to mitigate, respond to and recover from emergencies and disasters. In applicable situations, we employ the Incident Command System, 
a domestic incident management system integrating 
a combination of facilities, equipment, personnel, 
procedures and communications.
Our business continuity plans document a predetermined set of instructions and procedures that outline how business functions will be sustained during and after 
a significant disruption. The primary goals are:  • Protecting people  • Protecting the environment  • Defining service alternatives for accomplishing 
     critical applications  • Minimizing the extent of interruption  • Limiting financial losses and hardships  • Satisfying national and state compliance regulations
Pioneer has determined critical business processes and developed continuity plans that can be deployed across our operations, business units, subsidiary companies and support services in the event of a disaster. 

Tabletop exercises with these groups streamline processes, put risk mitigation plans into practice and increase plan effectiveness. We regularly test our business continuity plans and incident response procedures. These efforts have been instrumental in Pioneer’s rapid response to the COVID-19 pandemic.COVID-19 Response – COVID-19 tested the 
effectiveness of our Emergency and Crisis Management program and our business continuity plans; however, they both have performed extraordinarily well under challenging circumstances. Pioneer quickly recognized the risk that COVID-19 posed to our employees and business and activated our Crisis Management team 
(a comprehensive and cross-functional group of company leaders). Our primary concern, as always, was the health and safety of our employees and their families. We put numerous measures in place (following U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, State of Texas and county guidelines) to reduce the risk of exposure in both field and office settings. While essential field 
personnel continued reporting to work with specific safety protocols, we quickly transitioned office 
employees to a remote working environment with 
minimal business interruption.
Pioneer continues to respond to the changing COVID-19 situation and has thus far successfully 
managed the situation and met our operational goals. For example, Pioneer’s Supply Chain team executed plans within our COVID-19 Playbook, ultimately 
preventing supply disruptions to ongoing drilling, completions and production operations. 
CybersecurityInformation security is the direct responsibility of our Technology Solutions team and is managed by our chief information officer (CIO). The Management Committee and Board are engaged in information security/cybersecurity strategies and the associated oversight processes. The CIO provides regular updates to the Board on company practices and mitigation strategies, and the Audit Committee receives periodic relevant updates as well. Pioneer’s information security staff works with external partners in federal and local law enforcement and utilizes expert cybersecurity 
firms and resources, both of which allow Pioneer to 
actively evaluate cyber threats. Policies, procedures, and communication and training campaigns inform employees of the importance of information security and cybersecurity, potential threats and appropriate 
preventive actions. Our cybersecurity policy is available to all employees, and they are required to acknowledge and observe the policy. Violation of 
this policy can result in disciplinary consequences. Additionally, our cybersecurity program governance 
is based on the International Organization for 
Standardization and National Institute of Standards and Technology frameworks. Pioneer performs regular 
cybersecurity incident response testing and due diligence, including triannual third-party audits on our operational technology. All of this is subject to our annual Sarbanes-Oxley and financial third-party audits. Vulnerability analysis performed against these systems includes simulated hacker attacks. In 2020, Pioneer had no material losses from a cybersecurity incident.
Data Governance and Management Pioneer employees responsible for information and 
data governance actively assess master data domains 
and reports for suppliers, revenue, cost centers and 
operational information. By using enterprise resource planning tools and oil and gas data governance standards, we create data quality standards, business rules and monitor data quality to prevent interruptions. In addition, our data specialists continue to develop tools for more detailed data glossaries and robust data traceability.
Pioneer’s HSE information management system is a collaborative process with departments throughout 
the company. The primary benefits of the system are:  • Improves visibility and accountability for HSE 
    compliance and culture throughout the organization  • Establishes an enterprise-level platform to enable 
    Pioneer to continue to standardize and improve our 
    HSE risk management processes  • Demonstrates our commitment to HSE and 
    sustainability through investment in tools that raise 
    the level of employee and management engagement  • Enables enhanced sharing of lessons learned and  
     proactive HSE indicators across the company and 
     with our contractors  • Reduces technology costs and risks by moving to 
     industry-leading, cloud-based solutionsLETTER FROM THE CHAIRMANGOVERNANCEiii19GOVERNANCE20PROACTIVE HSE CULTURE 
Our HSE philosophy states: “No job is so urgent or important that it cannot be done safely and in a manner that is environmentally sound.” Pioneer emphasizes a corporate culture – in the office and in the field – that values safety and environmental stewardship. Internal campaigns such as Safely8760 and Stewardship365 highlight our safety and 
environmental principles.
Pioneer is committed to sending our workforce home safely every day and has established HSE programs focused on high-risk areas. Our Health and Safety team utilizes data to correlate actions to incidents, giving us behavioral indicators that help keep Pioneer employees and contractors safe. Through employee engagement activities, training and communication campaigns, we educate, 
empower and encourage Pioneer employees to achieve health, safety and environmental stewardship.
HSE Commitment and PolicyOur HSE policy covers all Pioneer operations and aligns with our Health, Safety and Environmental Management System. It also requires contractors, suppliers and service-providers to maintain an HSE policy that meets or exceeds our policy. 
We are dedicated to protecting the health and safety of everyone who works at Pioneer and 
minimizing our impact on the environment by 
applying high standards, following corporate 
policies, and conducting business responsibly 
and ethically. All HSE incidents are required to be reported, no matter how small. We investigate and learn from incidents and develop corrective actions to reduce the likelihood of recurrence. As reflected in our HSE and ESG Commitments, the key to managing our corporate reputation is a commitment to do the right thing and act with integrity.
To view our HSE Commitment, HSE Policy 
and related information, go to PXD.com > 
Culture > Values.There are 8,760 hours in a year. As a company, we ask our employees and contractors to be mindful of safety every hour of every day – whether at work or at home – which is why we named our Pioneer safety initiative Safely8760.
Here are the foundational principles of our 
Safely8760 program:•  Commitment – Build a proactive culture 
    of safety    • Stop Work Authority – Ask questions and  
    “stop the job” if necessary  • Aware and Engaged – Prevent incidents 
    at home and at work  • Communication – Share knowledge and   
     lessons learned  • Continual Improvement – Be better, safer   
     every day
Having a continual focus on safety is key to reducing overall incidents and potential lost-time events. The HSE team actively works with those who report incidents and near misses to identify opportunities for improvement and enhance data we can use to correlate actions to incidents. These behavioral indicators are used to prevent future incidents and keep Pioneer employees and contractors safe.LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMANGOVERNANCE21iiiHSE Management SystemOur HSE Management System (HSEMS) provides an organized approach for HSE activities while supporting Pioneer’s vision of a workplace that positively impacts our employees and communities. The integrated HSEMS has:  • Improved structure under the Plan-Do-Check-   
    Act continual improvement cycle  • Standardized HSE elements in Hazard 
    Identification and Risk Assessment  • Updated Behavioral Observations Program to      
    include additional proactive indicators, now 
    “Proactive HSE”  • Incorporated emergency management with    
     HSEMS Incident Management  • Combined performance measurement and    
     internal assessment under one HSEMS 
     supporting function “Performance Evaluation”
The HSEMS consists of 13 elements that set HSE expectations, provide an avenue for employee 
engagement and drive HSE performance improvement.
The HSEMS aligns with the Plan-Do-Check-Act process-improvement model and matures through the HSEMS Maturity Matrix. The matrix contains three levels of maturity: fundamentals (1F), building
skills (2BS) and continual improvement (3CI), starting with fundamentals first, then building up through additional levels.
While we continue to develop all elements of the HSEMS, in 2020 we directed our primary efforts 
			        to four foundational 				        elements: Management 
		                     Commitment; 
		                     Proactive HSE; 
			        Hazard Identification 			                     and Risk Assessment; 				        and Standards, 			        Guidelines and 
			        Procedures.Pioneer’s environmental initiative, Stewardship365, focuses on our responsibility to environmental stewardship each day of the year, whether at work or at home.Here are the foundational principles of our Stewardship365 program:  • Responsible Operations – Respecting the air, 
     land and water  • Thoughtful Planning – Considering the 
     environment in decision-making  • Ownership – Empowering employees and   
     contractors to do the right thing  • Communication – Effectively sharing 
     knowledge and ideas  • Sustainable Practices – Creating value 
     through efficiency and innovation  • Continual Improvement – Reducing our 
     environmental footprintWe actively promote ESG stewardship 
through employee engagement activities, 
training and communication campaigns 
to educate, empower and encourage 
Pioneer employees to continue improving 
their focus every day. Pioneer 
employees fulfill annual training 
requirements regarding 
policies and procedures for 
environmental, social and 
governance topics.GOVERNANCE22LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMANGOVERNANCEiii23HSE Risk RegisterWe periodically evaluate known risks through our risk register process, and we identify and review new HSE risks through brainstorming sessions. Facilitated by HSE business partners, Pioneer subject matter experts assess and score risks based on these criteria: level of impact, the likelihood of occurrence, reputational risk, public access, financial risk, current practices and regulatory guidance. Necessary changes, additions or existing controls are documented, and summary conclusions are presented to the HSEC at the business level. These findings aid the HSEC in goal setting, defining proactive measures and developing risk controls to mitigate serious exposures. If needed, risk controls are defined and 
implemented to minimize the severity or frequency/
exposure of an adverse event and reduce overall risk. 
We utilize the hierarchy of control models when scoring the effectiveness of our controls in reducing risk.