Chapter 2Our ESG StrategyClimate Change PositionAddressing climate change is an important priority at Pioneer. 
We strive to proactively limit emissions of methane and other greenhouse gases from our operations while assessing and managing the impacts of climate change on our business. We believe our strategy, capital discipline, operational excellence and best-in-class portfolio positively position Pioneer to meet these challenges. We are committed to working with all stakeholders to address our impacts on the environment, while providing the sustainable supply of abundant, affordable, responsibly produced energy.  ESG Commitment Pioneer is committed to being a low-cost, low-emission producer 
of U.S. oil and gas. The energy industry is evolving rapidly and we consider our commitment to responsible and sustainable development paramount to the future of Pioneer. Through continuous assessment and improvement and adoption of leading ESG practices, we believe we are positioned to continue to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders.EGSSOCIALGOVERNANCEENVIRONMENTALAs the energy industry continues to evolve, Pioneer remains committed to leading environmental practices and stewardship of our areas of operation. We are continually focused on reducing our emissions intensity, use of freshwater and physical footprint on the land.Our Board and executive management team recognize that robust corporate governance and Board-level oversight of our ESG initiatives drive alignment with our companyÕs strategic ESG vision and the long-term interests of our shareholders.At Pioneer, we respect one another and support the communities we call home. Through a culture dedicated to diversity, equity, inclusiveness and transparent communication we consistently embrace differences and promote honesty and teamwork throughout our company. We call this RESPECT.OUR ESG STRATEGY08Our Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Key Highlights in ESG ProgressESG matters remain critically important to our leadership, our 
employees and our stakeholders, and therefore, the companyÕs future. Methane ManagementIn 2022, Pioneer reinforced our commitment to reducing methane emissions, joining the United Nations-led OGMP 2.0 and the Gas Technology Institute (GTI)-led Veritas initiative..The OGMP 2.0 Framework aims to improve the accuracy and transparency of methane emissions reporting from the oil and gas industry and create a consistent platform to track actual emissions reductions. Veritas participants are expected to develop protocols necessary to calculate measurement-
informed emissions inventories. Pioneer plans to continue to advance the use of the latest emissions-monitoring and measurement technologies 
to achieve the goals of both programs. We have expanded our current aerial methane detection surveys of our assets from one time per year to three times per year. More frequent flyovers will allow Pioneer to detect and mitigate fugitive emissions more quickly and effectively. We are also completing a 
field test of various fixed-site sensor technologies and intend to 

develop a plan by the end of 2022 to deploy this technology at 
our larger facilities.   Advancing Our Net Zero StrategyPioneer is acting upon our Net Zero plan to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We continue to emphasize electrification of our field operations as a primary strategy. In 2021, we completed trials of grid-powered electric drilling and the use of gas-powered turbines in our completion operations and initiated plans to use electric gas lift compression at our facilities. These successful pilots are informing the development of longer-term electrification plans. We are partnering with our primary transmission provider as we develop a power strategy to support electric drilling, completions and compression activities, which will continue to progress over the next few years. As part of 
our emissions-reduction efforts, we are pursuing the migration to 
electrification as these technologies develop and the power infrastructure
in the Permian Basin allows. Additionally, we have begun to form strategic partnerships to formally participate in the development of renewable energy projects as well as purchasing renewably generated 
power for our operations. These efforts align with our Net Zero strategy by mitigating our Scope 2 emissions.  FlaringIn 2019, Pioneer CEO Scott Sheffield called on producers to remedy what he dubbed the Òblack eyeÓ of the Permian Basin, encouraging other regional producers to reduce flaring to 2% or less of total natural gas production, significantly lower than the 2019 Permian Basin average of ~4%, according to Rystad Energy. Following SheffieldÕs call to action and amid heightened scrutiny, Permian producers are now reporting lower flaring numbers across Texas and New Mexico. Pioneer avoids routine flaring by requiring that our wells be connected to gas takeaway infrastructure before they are placed on production. In fact, we have limited annual flaring to below 1% of natural gas produced for more than three years, serving as a leader in the Permian Basin: Pioneer flared only 0.41% of our natural gas produced in 2021 compared to a Permian Basin average of 1.3% according to Rystad Energy. Pioneer also accelerated our committed deadline to eliminate 
routine flaring to 2025 Ð five years ahead of our previous goal of 2030. This new target aligns with the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring initiative. 
Third-party Assurance of Emission-related DataPioneer has received independent limited assurance of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions calculations included in this report. Addition.ally, to further validate our progress with emissions targets, the third party, ERM CVS, provided an assurance review of PioneerÕs GHG, methane and flaring intensity metrics.   
Implementing TCFD PrinciplesIn 2021, Pioneer published the companyÕs first Climate Risk Report, detailing our strategy to deliver long-term value to stakeholders by implementing Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) principles. We aim to continually refine and mature our internal processes around climate-related risks and opportunities and plan to provide our advancements in our second annual Climate Risk Report this fall.   OUR ESG STRATEGY09Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		More Ambitious Freshwater Use Reduction TargetLast year, Pioneer set an industry-leading goal to limit the use of freshwater in our completions operations to 25% by 2026. This year, we have set a new, more aggressive target that would reduce our freshwater usage to 20% or less of total consumption in our completions 
operations by 2026. With Pioneer under an exclusive contract to secure reclaimed water from the West Texas cities of Odessa and Midland, plus the continued development of our produced water reuse strategy, we believe we are well positioned to achieve this 
goal by 2026.   Pioneer does not include drilling operations (approximately 5% of total freshwater usage) in this freshwater target, as industry requirements and best practices necessitate freshwater use when drilling through shallow geologic zones to protect groundwater resources. Additionally, Pioneer is committed to transparency in our disclosures and defines freshwater more rigorously than our peers to include water acceptable for agriculture use.  The city of Midland was awarded the 2022 GovernorÕs Texas 
Environmental Excellence Award in the category of ÒWater 
Conservation,Ó for its new water treatment plant. We are proud 
of our part in funding this $134 million project and partnering with 



the city of Midland to safely develop this project on time and 
under budget. As a result, city of Midland water is now treated to 
a high quality and Pioneer is able to safely use this reclaimed water 
in our operations. Promoting Inclusion in Our Diverse WorkforcePioneer is proud to share that we have earned a score of 90 out of 100 on the 2022 HRC Index, the nationÕs foremost benchmarking survey and report measuring corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ+ workplace equality. Pioneer joins the ranks of 1,271 major U.S. businesses that were scored in the 2022 HRC Index. We continue to focus on diversity, equity and inclusion in every aspect of our business, including our executive management team. We strive for over 50% of the members of our executive management team be diverse in that they identify as female and/or with demographics that are traditionally underrepresented in the oil and gas industry. Each executive management team member has DEI goals that are tailored to the workforce within their respective business units. These departmental goals focus on leading indicators such as 
representation in targeted development, succession plans and 
internal mobility, helping Pioneer continue to empower representation of diverse perspectives and employees in all areas of the company. Additionally, Pioneer shares its EEO-1 data after submission of this report to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
to provide additional transparency into our efforts to increase 
under-represented populations in our workforce.   Integrating ESG and Social AwarenessIn 2021, Pioneer actively worked to develop a Supplier Code of 
Conduct that we released to our suppliers in 2022. The Code of 
Conduct requires suppliers to acknowledge the special set of values on which Pioneer was founded: honesty, mutual respect, accountability, innovation, inclusion and communication Ð known as the companyÕs RESPECT values.  
The Code will also require suppliers to adhere to PioneerÕs Human Rights Policy: ÒPioneer has committed to be a responsible corporate citizen and a force for good and advocate for progress on environmental 

sustainability and social inclusion and equality within our communities, industry and society at large.Ó Our Supply Chain Management team is working to better understand our relationships with Historically Underutilized Businesses (minority-, women- and veteran-owned businesses) as a part of our overall ESG and diversity efforts as a company. Pioneer Supply Chain Management is also onboarding all critical suppliers to EcoVadis, a widely accepted ESG and Business Sustainability rating platform. In 2021, Pioneer successfully onboarded 355 suppliers that account for more than 80% (or nearly $3 billion) of our annual operational spend, to EcoVadis. Additionally, Pioneer is benchmarking our diversity spending and plans to implement a Supplier Diversity Program in late 2022. Improving Our CommunitiesIn 2021, Pioneer and our employees contributed more than $9.5 million to hundreds of charitable organizations through strategic corporate partnerships, volunteer committees, leadership oversight, employee-driven matching contributions and grants, and university giving. Pioneer and our employees are also making contributions in 2022 for humanitarian aid to the people of Ukraine. 
Advancing Our ESG GovernancePioneer continues to raise the bar and enhance our ESG conduct and performance. We continue to review and, as needed, revise Codes, Policies and Commitments in alignment with ESG best practices. Our stakeholders are encouraged to review the following documents, which are available at pxd.com/library.   ¥ Code of Conduct and Business Ethics	- Including Foreign Corrupt Practices (FCPA), Foreign 
	  Boycotts, Sanctions, Antitrust, Fair Disclosure, Insider 
	  Trading, Whistle Blower protections   ¥ Supplier Code of Conduct  ¥ Sustainable Procurement Commitment  ¥ Human Rights (Policy/Commitment)  ¥ Health, Safety and Environmental (Policy/Commitment)  ¥ Approved Contractors PolicyOUR ESG STRATEGY10LandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value PATH TO NET ZERO BY 2050Decreased 
Total Recordable 
Injuries by
Interim targets to support our ambition to reach net zero emissions by 2050Significant progresstowards targets21%22%reductionfrom 2019 
baselineReduce GHG emissions intensity50% by 2030Scored a 90 out of 100on Human Rights Commitment(Scope 1 and Scope 2)Contributed >$9.5 million
to charitable organizationsCurrently 46% diverseexecutive management team50%reductionfrom 2019 
baselineReduce methane emissions intensity75% by 2030INAUGURAL YEAR¥ Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 Ð Company Member¥ Veritas Ð A GTI Differentiated Gas Measurement and Verification Initiative¥ Third-party limited assurance of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and flaring data¥ Supplier Code of Conduct¥ Sustainable Procurement Commitment including ESG diversity assessments for    supply chain and service providers¥ Active DEI workforce goals now represented in all business units¥ S&P 500 ESG Index Ð Constituent¥ Oilfield Water Stewardship Council (OWSC) Ð Founding Member¥ HRC Index participant Ð 90 out of 100 score59%lowerthan 1% limitLimit annual flaring intensity toless than 1%Reduce freshwater in completions to41%in 202120% by 2026ESG PROGRESS11Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value