Workplace Initiatives and Community Involvement Pioneer is committed to creating an inclusive environment where all employees feel respected, valued and connected to the business. We strive to be a workplace where individuals bring their authentic selves and are successful in achieving we live, work and operate. their goals. An inclusive workplace enables us to embrace the diverse backgrounds and perspectives of employees and attract the best talent. While Pioneer’s Diversity and Inclusion program is fewer than five years old, we are proud of our progress and excited about the momentum we’ve gained through grassroots interest, support from leadership, and participation in our training and programs that build awareness of differences WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Pioneer’s core values are focused on people, including employees, contractors and those with whom we interact in our communities. At the highest level, our leadership team keeps our company culture and employee well-being at the forefront. Diversity and Inclusion: One Pioneer and teach us how to better leverage them to achieve business results. As part of our commitment, Human Resources has a dedicated Diversity and Inclusion team that oversees our program, One Pioneer. WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT One Pioneer focuses on the following areas related to diversity and inclusion: • Community: Positively impact our communities      by providing opportunities to economically disadvantaged youth and increasing     underrepresented groups in the science,     technology, engineering and math     (STEM) fields. • Culture: Promote a culture of innovation and     inclusion where all employees feel respected     and valued as their authentic selves. • Talent: Develop accountable leadership and     talent programs that enable us to reach full     representation of women and people of color.     Educate employees and leaders to appreciate     and leverage differences. Additionally, Pioneer’s Diversity and Inclusion program now encompasses our Communities of Practice, including team members focused on continuous improvement, public speaking (such as Toastmasters) and our thriving team of talented administrative professionals. An essential part of the One Pioneer program is our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). Our ERGs definitely have a positive impact on our company culture. They offer programs that develop members, establish mentoring networks, offer close collaboration with philanthropic organizations, and encourage underrepresented groups to enter the industry and STEM fields. We are proud of the commitment and participation our employees have demonstrated across all levels within Pioneer. In 2018, our ERGs continued to grow with more than 30 percent of our employees participating in one or more of our resource groups. Pioneer is proud to have six thriving ERGs: • The Women’s Resource Group seeks to engage    and empower the women at Pioneer for the Gender Diversity     benefit of Pioneer and the community. • The Military Resource Group advocates for the     recruitment, development and support of     military members and their families at Pioneer. • The Multicultural Resource Group works to    foster a culture of inclusion through promoting    a positive understanding of our differences. • The Pioneering Innovative Leaders of Tomorrow    (PILOT) group cultivates cross-discipline    communication and professional development    among technical professionals who are relatively    new to the oil and gas industry. • One Pioneer Mentoring seeks to empower    Pioneer employees to adapt and succeed    throughout their career in a rapidly changing    workplace. • The PRIDE+ Resource Group, which launched     in early 2019, advances our culture of RESPECT     by cultivating a work environment that visibly     supports and actively empowers our LGBTQ     employees, their allies and the community     through education, advocacy, recruitment,     mentorship and philanthropy. Pioneer is committed to transparency around our diversity and inclusion efforts. As part of that, we intend to incorporate more information in this area, beginning with gender demographics in this year’s report: 50% 40% 30% In 2018, our ERGs continued to 20% 10% grow with more than 30% of our 0 employees participating in one Total Overall Mid-Level Leadership Board of Directors or more of our resource groups. Individual Contributor Senior Executive WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Through our longstanding partnership with Habitat for Humanity, Pioneer has donated more than $4 million and built 23 new homes. Community Involvement and Social While Pioneer’s relationship with the Midland Investments Area Habitat for Humanity is newer, our West Whether in West or North Texas, Pioneer’s Texas employees are no less dedicated to this presence is felt in the lives and communities wonderful cause that helps transform neighborhoods where we live and work. When you spend time in their local communities. In 2018, the company with us, it won’t take long to see that we love contributed $70,000 to fund the building of a new being good neighbors. Pioneer is proud to model home, ultimately built by our employees, through the importance of becoming a force for good in the organization. our local communities. Habitat for Humanity: Pioneer has partnered with Dallas Area Habitat for Humanity since 2006, in support of its efforts to transform communities through home ownership. Through our longstanding partnership, Pioneer has donated more than $4 million and built 23 new homes. We’ve also made repairs on 32 other homes through Habitat’s “A Brush with Kindness” program, which offers minor exterior home repair services for owners with certain age, disability or family circumstances, seeking to revitalize the appearance of the neighborhood, encourage connections within the community and, most importantly, help residents reclaim their homes with dignity. In 2018, Pioneer commenced another three-year, $1.5 million commitment to help revitalize neighborhoods in South and West Dallas. Pioneer’s commitment to our partnership with Dallas Area Habitat runs deep; Executive Vice President, Permian Operations, Joey Hall, serves as Secretary of the Habitat Board of Directors. His active participation lends a valuable business perspective to the organization and helps ensure the goals of Habitat and Pioneer continue to align. Our employees clearly have a heart for Habitat’s mission, as evidenced by the more than 375 Pioneer employees who volunteered to build three homes and complete five home renovation projects. WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT United Way: United Way chapters across the country target communities in need and invest in improving the education, financial stability and health of both families and individuals within those communities. The organization empowers residents to reach out and help their neighbors in need, and it has inspired Pioneer employees to do the same. Our employees give generously, and Pioneer matches every dollar they pledge, ultimately doubling our donation to local United Way chapters. In the Dallas area, Pioneer and its Irving-based employees have donated $4.8 million to United Way since 2005. Our partnership with United Way extends to our West Texas communities as well. In 2018, Permian-based Pioneer employees, in conjunction with the company match, contributed more than $130,617 to United Way of Midland and $8,025 to United Way of Concho Valley. Together, United Way and Pio.neer work to create positive, perceptible change in their communities while improving the lives of others. Dallas CASA: Pioneer is a strong supporter of Dallas CASA (Court Appointed Special Advocates) and its conviction that all children have the right to be safe. Judges appoint Dallas CASA volunteers to advocate for the best interests of abused and neglected children, helping these children gain safe, permanent homes as quickly as possible. Dallas CASA exists so that abused and neglected children in protective care have the chance to become successful adults. In 2018, Dallas CASA served more than 3,300 children with more than 1,400 volunteer advocates, including many of our own Pioneer employees and WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT their spouses. Still, the year ended with more than one out of four children left to navigate the complex child welfare system without a CASA volunteer, reinforcing the resolve of Pioneer and Dallas CASA to serve each and every child in need. Pioneer, together with Goldman Sachs and AT&T, co-hosts the annual Dallas CASA Classic invitational golf tournament. The tournament is now the highest grossing non-PGA, one-day charity tournament in Texas. In 2018, the Dallas CASA Classic raised $1.7 million, bringing the total amount raised by the tournament since its inception to $17.9 million. In addition to co-hosting the Dallas CASA Classic, Pioneer supports the organization through sponsorships of other local events, including the Parade of Playhouses, where generous architects, builders, organizations, corporations and individuals design, build and donate extraordinary children’s playhouses to raise funds so that Dallas CASA can recruit and train more volunteer advocates. In 2018, the Dallas CASA Classic raised $1.7 million, bringing the total amount raised by the tournament since its inception to $17.9 million. In October 2018 and again in May 2019, Pioneer Permian employees, organized by the Permian Environmental Department, volunteered at Peeps & Creeps, a nonprofit wildlife rehabilitation based out of A to Z Veterinary Clinic in Midland. Initially established in 2007 to provide a home and veterinary care for dozens of exotic animals after their owners could no longer care for them, the clinic is today home to a pair of camels, a zebra, an arctic fox, a llama, several coatimundi, a few giant tortoises, a dwarf caiman and dozens of exotic birds of every feather, to name just a few species on its guest roster. The facility has sheltered or treated hawks, owls, squirrels, bobcats, foxes, raccoons and more. “With wells going up and a busier city in general, we’re seeing a large amount of wildlife trying to adapt,” says LeAnn Bruner, who, along with her small staff, is dedicated to caring for the animals of the Permian Basin. It didn’t take long, of course, for Pioneer to find out about the nonprofit’s mission and offer a lending paw and a $5,000 donation. “Pioneer is one of only two oil companies that have approached us to find out what they can do to help,” LeAnn said. Our budding relationship with Peeps & Creeps dovetails perfectly with Pioneer’s Stewardship365 initiative, which outlines our principles for operating responsibly. Pioneer is actively working to develop a Wildlife Mitigation Plan to further ensure all our exploration activities take local wildlife into account. The Arts: The Dallas Theater Center (DTC) performs to an audience of more than 80,000 Dallas-area residents annually, and is known for its original works, beloved classics, and community arts education programs. Project Discovery, Dallas Theater Center’s signature education program, provides in-depth theater experiences for thousands of at-risk teens from 30 North Texas high schools. Dallas Theater Center provides this program at no charge. In 2018, Pioneer committed to another five-year $320,000 contribution to allow the DTC to continue implementing its successful community programs. As a Co-Producer for the Midland Community Theatre, Pioneer hosts “Pioneer Night at the Theatre” twice a year in the spring and fall. This longstanding tradition brings Pioneer employees from all of our Permian offices together, giving them a chance to involve their families and friends in supporting the fine arts locally. Youth and Education: Contributing to youth and education initiatives remains a priority for Pioneer. As a strong advocate for academic enrichment in all our operating areas, Pioneer supports education by partnering with our employees, local communities, and community colleges and universities, through both small and large programs. In 2018, Pioneer contributed more than $2 million to colleges and universities, as well as youth and education initiatives. Throughout the years, Pioneer has forged a strong partnership with the Midland Independent School District, as well as the increasing number of private schools being established in West Texas, illustrating the company’s ongoing dedication to education in the community. The new Chris Davidson Opportunity Park in Midland began construction on its new location in 2018 with a $150,000 commitment from Pioneer. After 25 years in its original location, the park is relocating near the Bush Tennis Center and looks forward to providing a safe place where children can play and families can celebrate for years to come. This universally accessible park will provide an active and meaningful experience that recognizes individual strength, dignity and ability. Another example is Pioneer’s partnership with Early College High School (ECHS). ECHS is an innovative collaboration between the Midland Independent School District and Midland College to provide students with the opportunity and support necessary to obtain a high school diploma and an associates’ degree in just four years. The majority of students come from underserved minority and low-income communities where many of ECHS’s potential first-generation college students lack the support network to pursue a college education. ECHS’s attendance rate has been the highest in the district every year since its inception in 2009. Pioneer became a major sponsor in 2012, contributing $1.75 million since that time. ECHS has become the standard for academic excellence in the Midland Independent School District and the surrounding communities. WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Pioneer is a significant contributor to the economies of the communities where we operate and where our employees work and live. The following map depicts the number of people Pioneer employed in each asset region and our North Texas headquarters in 2018, and the state and county taxes resources are taxed according to their appraised fair market value. 