Chapter 7HSE CultureWe are dedicated to protecting the occupational health and safety of everyone who works with Pioneer and minimizing our impact on the environment by applying high standards, following leading corporate policies, and conducting business responsibly and ethically. Our HSE philosophy states: “No job is so urgent or important that it cannot be done safely and in a manner that is environmentally sound.”  As reflected in our HSE and ESG Commitments, the key to managing our corporate reputation is a commitment to do the right thing and act with integrity. HSE Best Practices  Our HSE vision has two programmatic components. Safely8760There are 8,760 hours in a year. We ask our employees and 
contractors to be mindful of health and safety every hour of 
every day—that means whether we are at work or at home. Stewardship365Stewardship365 focuses on our responsibility to environmental stewardship each day of the year—again, whether at work or
at home.For more information, see our HSE Commitment.HSE CULTURE48Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Our HSE policy covers all Pioneer operations and aligns with our Health, Safety and Environmental Management System (HSEMS). Pioneer 
emphasizes a corporate culture – in the office and in the field – that 
values health, safety and environmental stewardship. It also requires 
contractors, suppliers and service providers to maintain HSE policies 
that meet or exceed our policies.  Pioneer is committed to sending our workforce home safely every 
day and has established HSE programs focused on high-risk areas. 
Our HSE team utilizes data to correlate incidents to risks, driving 
actions that help keep Pioneer employees and contractors safe.    1. All HSE incidents are required to be reported to managers, no 
     matter how small.   2. We investigate and learn from incidents and develop corrective 
      actions to reduce the likelihood of recurrence. HSE Management System (HSEMS) HSEMS provides an organized approach for HSE activities while 
supporting Pioneer’s vision of a workplace that positively impacts
our employees and communities. The HSEMS consists of 13 elements that set HSE expectations, provide an avenue for employee engagement and drive HSE performance 
improvement. The elements are categorized by three levels of maturity: 1) fundamentals (least mature), 2) building skills and 3) continual 
improvement (most mature), starting with fundamentals first, then
building up through additional levels.  HSE CULTURE49Our Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Phase 1: Leadership and Employee Participation Element 1: Management Commitment Pioneer management leads by sharing the vision, setting expectations and allocating resources. Managers have roles, responsibilities and accountabilities for leading the HSE effort and implementing the HSEMS model.Element 2: Proactive HSE We promote a proactive HSE culture with a foundation of employee 
engagement and participation that drives the improvement of our HSE programs. Our managers, supervisors and employees are trained in the use of proactive tools and measures, including 
Behavior Observation. Phase 2: Planning Element 3: Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment Pioneer established a hazard identification and risk assessment process to continually identify, analyze and control hazards in the workplace. Annually our business units conduct formal risk assessments to determine and prioritize risks associated with hazards in a risk registry and then develop appropriate controls. Element 4: Standards, Guidelines and Procedures Standards, guidelines and procedures (SGPs) equip our employees to work safely, consistently and effectively. SGPs assist employees charged with field development and operations responsibility to support decisions on various engineering, design and construction phases. These documents focus on project management, sound HSE practices, code compliance, company preferences and sound business practice. Our SGPs are updated, as needed, to reflect operational conditions.  Phase 3: Support Element 5: Competence & Training Pioneer’s competence and training programs help create awareness of HSE risk in the workplace and deepen understanding of regulatory requirements and Pioneer’s HSE standards and guidelines. Employees complete required HSE training to increase their skills and knowledge.  Element 6: Effective Communication Pioneer has a structured planning, delivery, evaluation and revision 
of all communication channels (internal and external) related 
to the HSEMS. Two-way communication promotes employee 
understanding and active management participation to ensure 
employees understand how their job functions are important 
and impact the company. Phase 4: Operation Element 7: Driving Management Pioneer’s goal with driving management is to place our employees in the best possible situation to proactively engage in problem-
solving prior to driving, and remain alert, educated and engaged 
in the driving process while actively on the road.  Pioneer continues to leverage our fully implemented In-Vehicle Monitoring System (IVMS). Our system allows us to gain insight into our driver’s behaviors while operating the vehicle, as well as ensuring vehicles are in good repair and safe to operate. 
Element 8: Contractor HSE Management Working with third parties requires collaboration and communication. The contractor HSE management program provides guidelines for pre-qualifying, selecting, onboarding, evaluating, and monitoring and decommissioning contractors. 
The program also provides operator guidelines through requiring Basin United training and an onboarding video for contractors 
performing work on Pioneer locations.  Element 9: Management of Change (MOC) Management of Change (MOC) provides a systematic approach to managing the effects of changes (organizational, operational, structural and business processes) on HSE. Significant changes are reported, acknowledged, reviewed, approved, communicated and documented to eliminate the likelihood of incidents prior to, during and following the change. Element 10: Asset Integrity Management (AIM) The Asset Integrity Management (AIM) process begins at project conception and is active through all stages of the asset life: design, construction, operations, maintenance, and retirement of assets. The Pioneer AIM program strategically adds value by being proactive in improving equipment reliability in an environmentally responsible 
manner, benefiting the organization through collaborative and 
continuous improvement. Element 11: Incident & Emergency ManagementPioneer believes all HSE incidents are preventable and has established processes if an event occurs. Incident and emergency management programs address the underlying causes – both for preparedness and to prevent recurrence.  When any HSE incident or near-miss occurs, Pioneer follows an HSE Event management process, which includes:   • A thorough investigation, Root Cause Analysis and corrective 
     actions to prevent recurrence   • Lessons learned from incidents are shared with Pioneer 
     employees and contractors   HSE CULTURE50Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture		Serious Exposure MethodologySimilar to a Serious Incident and Fatality (SIF) program at other companies, Pioneer’s Serious Exposure program focuses on identifying and investigating any incident or near miss that had the potential 
to result in a fatality or life-altering/life-threatening injury or illness – and Pioneer also includes incidents that result in a significant 
environmental impact. This ensures we prioritize the highest-risk events, bringing increased visibility and proactive, consistent 
solutions to these more urgent situations. Our executive leadership continues to drive this initiative forward to demonstrate management’s commitment to Safely8760 and Stewardship365 principles. Monthly review meetings share lessons learned across the organization, identify actionable preventative measures, develop a stronger culture around serious exposure awareness and prevention, drive accountability from the top down, and improve corrective action efficacy. Phase 5: Performance Evaluation Element 12: Evaluation Pioneer has established a systematic approach to measure and 
monitor its HSE performance. Both proactive and reactive 
measures of performance are used, with more emphasis on 
proactive measures, to continually improve HSE performance.  Phase 6: Management ReviewElement 13: Review Senior management reviews the HSEMS at planned intervals to verify its continuing suitability and effectiveness. The decisions from management reviews are consistent with Pioneer’s commitment to continual improvement and include any actions related to changes to the HSE performance, policy and objectives, resources, and other elements of the HSEMS. HSE Performance The oil and gas industry faced multiple challenges in 2020-2021, including managing COVID-19 associated impacts to our workforce and staffing levels, along with sharp decreases and increases in oil demand. This, coupled with transitioning workforces from our newly acquired assets, led to an increased opportunity for HSE exposures. In the face of these challenges, Pioneer responded by prioritizing the health and safety of our workforce. Our performance demonstrates our continued commitment to our HSE values.   HSE CULTURE51Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		HSE TrainingMotor VehicleIncidents (MVI)Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)Decreased total recordable injuries by 21% MVI rate of 0.36 incidents per million miles driven More than 66,000 hours were dedicated to HSE training Pioneer was recognized with the Texas Employer Traffic Safety Award by The National Safety Council (NSC) and the Texas Department of Transportation, for the fifth year in a row.While some measures increased in 2021, others such as our employee recordable injury rate (TRIR) decreased by 21% from last year. When performance is normalized by activity levels (such as wells drilled, stages completed, wells placed on production) the numbers show that Pioneer has continued to show improvement over the past three years. For instance, when comparing 2021 to 2019 and using wells drilled as the normalizer, the employee recordable injury rate decreased by 71%, the employee lost time rate decreased by 51% and the contractor recordable injury rate decreased by 28%. Pioneer is committed to continuing a pattern of improvement by prioritizing the health and safety of its workforce. Motor Vehicle Safety  At Pioneer, the desire to improve, even on good things, means we are constantly exploring innovative ways to positively impact our driver and transportation safety culture. Pioneer provides proven, sound, and effective practices to our employees, through education, 
training, and best practices sharing. Our goal is to place our 
employees in the best possible situation to proactively engage 
in problem-solving prior to driving, and remain alert, educated 
and engaged in the driving process while actively on the road.  
We leverage our HSEMS, which allows us to use a comprehensive approach as we execute and improve our driver and transportation safety culture. The National Safety Council (NSC) and the Texas Department of Transportation have, for the fifth year in a row, honored Pioneer with the Texas Employer Traffic Safety Award. As the NSC stated in its award notes, Pioneer is “a leader in the area of traffic safety and an example for Texas employers statewide.” Motor Vehicle Incident Rate Pioneer expects all motor vehicle incidents to be reported, regardless of severity. Pioneer defines a motor vehicle incident (MVI) as any incident involving a company owned/operated motor vehicle, in gear and under physical control of the driver. Reportable MVIs that count toward the overall rate are incidents where a Pioneer employee or third-party sustains an injury that requires medical treatment 
beyond first aid and/or where a company or third-party vehicle 
cannot be safely driven from the scene. Pioneer continues to 
maintain a low motor vehicle incident rate (MVIR), even as activity levels have increased.  Contractor Safety  The contractor TRIR (Total Recordable Incident Rate) for Pioneer locations increased in 2021 by 19% when compared year over year; however, when Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recordables are normalized by activity levels (such as wells drilled, stages completed, wells placed on production) versus hours worked, Pioneer contractors have seen a 28% decrease over the past three years. Pioneer has realized those results through continuous improvement of the five contractor program elements: pre-qualification, selection, onboarding, evaluation, and monitoring and decommissioning. Pioneer’s Contractor Partnership Program (CPP) is a documented contractor relationship-building program between Pioneer field leadership and a contractor’s leadership. The purpose of CPP is to increase accountability for HSE performance, improve communication of key HSE messages, and implement proactive measures to foster risk mitigation and incident prevention.  HSE Training Pioneer employees fulfill annual training requirements regarding policies and procedures for environmental, social and governance topics. In 2020, Pioneer enhanced its HSE training through a 
targeted program that assigns employee training by a pre-defined exposure ranking. Our HSE training program covers both compliance and cultural HSE topics, ranging from incident management to confined space to behavior observations. The training curriculum follows OSHA standards and includes both new-hire orientation and ongoing training for our employees. In 2021, more than 66,000 hours were dedicated to HSE training. A complete list of Health and Safety performance metrics are 
provided in the Sustainability Performance Data Table.HSE CULTURE52Our Reporting ApproachWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE Culture