OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACYPioneer is a significant contributor 
to the economies of the states and communities where we operate and where our employees work and live. The following table depicts the 
number of people Pioneer employed 
in each asset region and our north 
Texas headquarters in 2017, and the state and county taxes Pioneer paid in 2017. Production, or severance, taxes are levied by each state on companies 
producing natural resources. Ad 
valorem taxes are levied at a county level, and the producing resources 
are taxed according to their appraised fair market value.OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY45115 JobsAd valorem taxes: $2 million 
Production/severance 
taxes: $422,000COLORADO92 JobsAd valorem taxes: $10,500 
Production/severance 
taxes: $13,2001,164 JobsAd valorem taxes: $1.45 million 
Sales taxes: $1.13 millionTEXAS2,277 
JobsAd valorem taxes: $52.18 million 
Production/severance 
taxes: $196 millionSales taxes: $2.37 million164 JobsAd valorem taxes: $9.27 million 
Production/severance 
taxes: $22.23 millionSales taxes: $589,000Advocacy and LobbyingAccording to the International Energy Agency’s 2017 Sustainable Development Scenario demand for oil is expected to be ~73MMBOEPD in 2040. To ensure the oil and gas industry is able to sustainably supply this resource, Pioneer works in conjunction with industry partners 
to advocate for a secure energy future. Pioneer actively participates in the political process, with the goal of informing policymakers and regulators about our business and advocating for policy solutions that mutually benefit the communities and states in which we operate, 
our industry, Pioneer, and our stockholders. National and State Trade AssociationsPioneer collaborates with a number of national, regional and state trade associations representing the oil and gas industry to share information and advance a common agenda on legislative and regulatory matters. OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY46In 2017, Pioneer made significant financial contributions (more than $25,000) to the 
following trade and business associations, which we considered strategic partners:Political ExpendituresPioneer has adopted a policy regarding political expenditures, which is set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and is applicable 
to all Pioneer directors and employees. Under the policy, no company funds may be used for political contributions in the United States, 
unless permitted by law, approved by the 
Chief Executive Officer, and then approved 
by either the General Counsel or Chief 
Compliance Officer.The charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of Pioneer’s Board of Directors provides for the committee’s oversight of all Pioneer political spending and lobbying activities. The committee, which is composed entirely of independent directors, and the full Board of Directors, receive an annual report from senior management regarding Pioneer 
political activities, including corporate contributions to issue campaigns or referenda, payments to 
527 organizations, 501(c)(4) groups, and other tax-exempt organizations, dues paid to trade 
associations, and political action committee (PAC) contributions. Corporate Political ContributionsPioneer may make occasional corporate 
contributions to political organizations and 
issue campaigns whose objectives are consistent with our business objectives in the areas in which we operate. While Pioneer’s directors and 
employees are free to participate in the political process individually, they may not represent a personal political contribution as being made 
on behalf of the company, and no director or employee may seek reimbursement, directly or indirectly, from Pioneer for any political contribution. OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY47Pioneer made the following contributions in 2017:Recipient					State				Amount(1)Protecting America Now			Washington D.C.		$100,000Midland Road Bond				Texas				$25,000Texas House Republican Caucus		Texas				$5,000Republican Governors Association 	Washington D.C.		$10,000Total										$140,000Political Action CommitteesSome of our employees contribute to PACs sponsored by Pioneer. The activities of the 
Pioneer PACs are subject to comprehensive governmental regulation, including detailed disclosure requirements. These disclosures are posted on the website of the Federal Election Commission or the Texas Ethics Commission, where they can be reviewed by members of the public. All distributions made from the PACs are approved by their respective boards, currently comprising senior members of management. 
All suggested distributions are reviewed to ensure they are consistent with legal limits and are delivered to entities eligible to receive PAC funds. All 
contributions to PACs are voluntary, and it is 
Pioneer’s policy that no one be favored or 
disadvantaged by reason of the amount of their contribution or their decision not to contribute. 
A comprehensive list of our PAC contributions for 2017 can be found on the Advocacy page of PXD.com.