Letter from the CEODue to the COVID-19 pandemic, 2020 
has been a unique and challenging year 
for Pioneer and the entire oil and gas 
industry. The health and safety of our 
employees and contractors has always been Pioneer’s top priority. COVID-19 created unprecedented challenges in this regard, and we quickly and effectively responded. Our Health, Safety and 
Environmental (HSE) team, together 
with our Corporate Facilities team and others throughout the organization, have done an incredible job supporting the safety and well-being of our employees, contractors and their families. While 
addressing these unprecedented 
circumstances, Pioneer sharpened 
its focus on effectively managing 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues.    

From an operations perspective, reduced demand 
for our products due to COVID-19, coupled with 
the Saudi Arabia and Russia price war, has generated significant economic tests for the company. While 
Pioneer faced numerous difficult decisions in 2019 
and 2020, including organizational restructurings 
and reductions to our workforce, I am proud to say 
the company has responded well to these challenges. 
We continue to drill the highest-return wells in the Permian Basin, preserve our strong balance sheet and return free cash flow to our investors. The efficiencies we have gained during this market downturn have made us a more resilient and productive company.Scott D. Sheffield, President and Chief Executive Officer“We continue 
to drill the 
highest-return wells in the Permian Basin, preserve our strong balance sheet and return free cash flow to our investors. ”LETTER FROM THE CEOiThis Sustainability Report addresses our work during the 2019 calendar year, as well as important commitments we have made in 2020. My letter focuses primarily on critical environmental matters. The following letter from Board Chairman Ken Thompson addresses several social- and governance-related priorities our Board of Directors (BOD) has put in place for the company going forward. During the drafting of this year’s report, we announced the acquisition of Parsley Energy (Parsley). Like Pioneer, 
Parsley shares a commitment to ESG matters and demonstrates impressive environmental performance. Parsley is a Permian pure-play company, and a large portion of its operating footprint is contiguous to Pioneer’s, which is expected to allow the combined company to realize both operational and environmental synergies. Minimizing air emissions is a shared priority for Pioneer and Parsley – and Pioneer is committed to continue being a leader among U.S. oil and gas producers after 
the companies are combined. This year, we have established long-term targets for our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, methane emissions and flaring. These targets are based on the combined company’s current operating footprint. In conjunction with establishing these targets, we have completed a multi-year effort to report an inventory of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from our operations that goes beyond the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) GHG Reporting Program requirements.  As I have stated publicly on many occasions, flaring of associated natural gas is a “black eye” for the industry in the Permian Basin. We are committed to ending “routine” flaring in the Permian by 2030 in conjunction with the World Bank’s recommendation. We aspire to reach this goal by 2025. As part of this commitment, Pioneer will only bring an oil well onto production when it is connected to a midstream partner’s sales pipeline for the associated 
natural gas. Pioneer continues to be a leader in this area with a flaring intensity rate of less than one percent. Beginning with a 2019 baseline, Pioneer is establishing aggressive targets for reductions in our GHG emissions, methane emissions and flaring intensities for the next 10 years, taking into account the addition of Parsley’s assets.  Pioneer supports the federal regulation of methane 
from our operations, as long as those regulations 
encourage innovation and operational flexibility in 
meeting emissions thresholds. Our leak detection and 
repair (LDAR) program, including our use of full-field 
aerial detection surveys, exceeds state and federal regulatory requirements. We continue to partner with regulatory agencies, academia and non-governmental organizations to develop technologies and operational best practices to limit emissions. Minimizing the use of freshwater in our operations is another priority for Pioneer. Throughout the past five years, we have developed the most advanced water infrastructure system in the Permian Basin. Our subsidiary company, Pioneer Water Management (PWM), manages a 120-mile main pipeline and dozens of associated water storage facilities to support our drilling and completion operations. This system allows us to minimize use of freshwater by allowing us to efficiently move recycled and reclaimed water where it is needed. Currently, we utilize approximately 120,000 barrels of water per day (BWPD) of treated effluent water from the city of 
Odessa. As outlined in our 2019 Sustainability Report, 
Pioneer is investing $134 million in a public-private partnership with the city of Midland. We are building a new secondary water treatment facility for Midland, in exchange for a contract to acquire treated effluent water through 2045. The new facility and related upgrades, which are designed to accommodate a projected future volume increase of up to 357,000 barrels of treated 
municipal wastewater per day, will be completed early next year.  These are only a few of the environmental highlights 
we are proud to report. We are committed to the 
principles of the Task Force for Climate Related 
Disclosures (TCFD), and you will notice we reference the standards and requirements of the Sustainable 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) when making 
our disclosures, in addition to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), 
and the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDG). We believe including these additional sustainable development indices enhances our 
Sustainability Report substantially. We are committed 
to robust disclosure and continuous improvement 
on ESG matters. Thank you for your interest in Pioneer and our 
sustainable practices. Sincerely,
Scott D. SheffieldPresident and Chief Executive OfficerLETTER FROM THE CEOiiLetter from the ChairmanAs Scott mentioned in his letter, 2020 has proved to be a challenging year for the oil and gas industry. Nevertheless, Pioneer continues to excel – drilling the best wells in the Permian Basin, maintaining a strong balance sheet and returning capital to 
our investors – and we have done so in alignment with stakeholder expectations on ESG matters. Our combination with Parsley will allow us to continue to deliver best-in-class operational and ESG 
performance for decades to come. 
While Scott focused on the tremendous progress Pioneer continues to make on 
environmental issues, I will address 
Pioneer developments in both social 
and governance matters. 

During 2020, the country has been engulfed in social unrest unlike anything we have seen for 
decades. At Pioneer, we remain absolutely 
committed to RESPECT values – which we outline in more detail on page 4 of this report – both within our company and within the communities where we live and work. We condemn racism, hate speech and other similar behaviors. In 2020, Pioneer supported two organizations specifically working to combat racial injustice, the Dallas Chapter of the NAACP and Facing History and Ourselves.  J. Kenneth Thompson, Chairman of the Board of Directors“Beginning in 2021, 
we plan to increase 
the weighting of 
Pioneer executive leadership’s HSE and ESG performance indicators within their annual bonus program from 10 percent 
to 20 percent. ”LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMANiiiWe also recognize the significant sacrifices of 
the police, other first responders and their 
families, and we continue to actively support 
law enforcement in our operating areas. While criminal activity cannot be excused, we support and encourage the respectful and peaceful 
exchange of ideas, opinions and new ways of thinking as the foundation for real, lasting change. Pioneer remains committed to diversity and 
inclusion – especially in light of the recent 
reductions to our workforce. Ensuring growth 
opportunities and career potential for women, people of diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds, and members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender and queer (LGBTQ) community is 
a priority at Pioneer. Teams made up of people with diverse backgrounds benefit from a variety of different perspectives and have proven to yield superior business results. Most importantly, we want every employee to feel supported and confident in being their authentic selves while working for our company. I am particularly proud of the work of OnePioneer, a single organization that was created in 2019 through the merger of Pioneer’s various employee resource groups. OnePioneer is led and self-governed by a diverse representation of our employees who advance diversity and inclusion initiatives across the 
entire company.  This year, Pioneer adopted a formal Human Rights Policy and Commitment, acknowledging standards developed by the United Nations (UN) and the International Labour Organization (ILO). While Pioneer currently operates only onshore and within the United States and the state of Texas, the values articulated by the UN and ILO – promoting social progress, generating better living standards, respecting indigenous peoples and championing human rights for all individuals – are consistent with Pioneer RESPECT values and the manner in which we have operated since the company’s inception. In terms of corporate governance, the company made two important decisions over the last 18 months to improve oversight of ESG. The first was to update the charters that define the scope of work of our five Board committees – the 
HSE Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Compensation and Leadership Development Committee, the Audit Committee, and our new Sustainability Reporting Committee. We made changes to each respective committee charter to clarify the Board’s role in overseeing management of climate change risk and other ESG matters. The second change made by the Board this 
year was to adjust our executive compensation formula. Beginning in 2021, we will increase the weighting of Pioneer executive leadership’s HSE and ESG performance indicators within their 
annual bonus program from 10 percent to 20 
percent. The Board feels this important step aligns company decision-making with HSE and ESG priorities.  Pioneer continues to combine best-in-class 
operational and financial results with excellent HSE and ESG performance. We are committed 
to continuous improvement in these areas and 
to our mission of being America’s leading 
independent energy company. Thank you again for your interest in, and support of, Pioneer. 
Sincerely,
J. Kenneth ThompsonChairman of the Board of DirectorsLETTER FROM THE CHAIRMANivEnvironmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) Commitment“The energy industry is evolving, and we recognize that our steadfast commitment to sustainability 
is paramount to the future of the company. 
We lead our peers in delivering long-term value to stakeholders by continuously assessing and mitigating risks, engaging in new opportunities, 
and strategically adapting to new scenarios.  

We are committed to taking a
leadership role among U.S. oil and gas producers in reducing greenhouse gas emissions intensity, while maintaining competitively low breakeven costs.  These are some of the many ways we are 
preparing for the energy transition.”ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE COMMITMENTvAt Pioneer, values aren’t lip service on a glossy brochure. 
Environmental stewardship is inherent to our Pioneer culture, present in our RESPECT values 
and, as we view it, critical to both our company and our industry. We want our stakeholders 
to know we don’t simply talk about stewardship – we actively plan, discuss, strategize and 
troubleshoot. Quite simply, ESG activities are top-of-mind and ingrained in our daily work.
Here are five examples (all contained in this report) that demonstrate our 
commitment to ESG:   • We are setting important targets to reduce GHG and methane emission intensities and limit 
     flaring – serving as a leading Permian Basin producer.   • RESPECT has always been the foundation of our value system, and we have firmly 
     established that with a policy on Human Rights and a robust Diversity and Inclusion program.   • Our Board is heavily engaged in our ESG leadership position, and we have bolstered ESG 
     governance at Pioneer with the creation of an ESG oversight committee on our Board and 
     an ESG Taskforce comprised of leaders across the company.   • We are committed to following TCFD principles, and we will actively and transparently 
     communicate our climate resiliency to our investors and stakeholders.   • Pioneer is committed to returning capital to our shareholders, while maintaining a sustainable 
     long-term business model. With our industry-leading breakeven cost, asset quality and 
     balance sheet, we are in a unique position to contribute to the global supply of low cost 
     energy. We are focused on producing environmentally responsible oil and gas while generating 
     a competitive total annual return to our shareholders. 

To capitalize on significant resource 
potential, more than 95 percent of 
Pioneer’s current capital expenditures 
are directed to the Permian Basin. 
The profitability of the Midland Basin 
is particularly evident when compared 
with other onshore U.S. liquid-rich 
basins. A breakeven cost of approximately
$33/BBL is attributed to Pioneer by 
Enverus, indicating the company is in 
a strong position to produce oil and 
gas economically and help meet 
long-term global demand for oil.  1) Commodity strip and stock price as of 7/28/2020. Dividends are authorized and determined by the Pioneer Board of Directors. 
    Future reinvestment rate subject to multiple factors, including commodity prices and economic outlook.ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE COMMITMENTviOur CompanyPioneer is a large, U.S. independent oil and gas exploration and production company producing oil, natural gas 
and natural gas liquids, with all operations and reserves in the Permian Basin in West Texas. 

With approximately 760,000 gross acres (680,000 net acres), Pioneer is the largest acreage holder in 
the Midland Basin, a Permian sub-basin, which the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) estimates is the 
largest contiguous oil field in the United States. Pioneer interests in the northern portion of the play 
comprise approximately 560,000 gross acres, and its interests in the southern portion of the play, 
where the company has a joint venture with Sinochem, include approximately 200,000 gross acres.

On October 20, 2020, Pioneer and Parsley Energy, Inc. announced an agreement under which Pioneer will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Parsley in an all-stock transaction valued at approximately 
$7.6 billion. Following closing of the acquisition, Pioneer will hold approximately 960,000 net acres in 
the Permian Basin and will be the premier independent operator in the basin.Our Mission Pioneer’s mission is to be America’s leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, 
the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. The company’s long-term growth 
strategy is centered around the following strategic objectives:   
  • Maintaining a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility
  
  • Returning free cash flow to shareholders   
  • Utilizing the company’s scale and technology advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency
  • Delivering economic production and reserve growth through drilling, completion and production 
     improvement activities
  • Training employees and contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner
  • Maintaining industry-leading sustainable development and environmental stewardship effortsOUR COMPANY01Pioneer RESPECT values apply to our employees, suppliers and contractors. Code of Business Conduct and Ethic
This year, the applicability of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code) was formally extended to contractors and suppliers working at (or on behalf of) Pioneer and includes provisions of services, materials, supplies and equipment for our operations. The Code now applies to all Pioneer employees, officers, directorsand contractors/suppliers.  This modification aligns Pioneer with best practices on governance, business ethics, anti-corruption and 
bribery, and extends our commitment to honest and ethical conduct beyond simply complying with all 
laws and regulations. At Pioneer, we don’t simply care that business results are obtained – we care how. 

Statement on Social Unrest Pioneer is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen and a force for good. Racial injustice is 
inexcusable. At Pioneer, we remain committed to our RESPECT values both within the company and 
extending into the communities where we live and work. 
Through these difficult times, we have actively encouraged our employees to participate in our OnePioneer employee resource group and take advantage of available support resources and wellness benefits. 
To view our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and additional information on Pioneer Diversity 
& Inclusion, equal opportunity employment, our Human Rights Policy, Human Rights Commitment, 
Equality is Good Business statement and other related information, please review the Diversity, 
Inclusion, and Social Values section of this report and visit PXD.com > Culture > Values. We condemn racism, 
hate speech, 
inflammatory comments 
or actions, and 
similar behaviors.We recognize the sacrifices 
the police and other 
first-responders make 
to keep us and our 
families safe.We support the peaceful 
and respectful exchange 
of ideas and opinions 
as the foundation for 
real, lasting change.OUR COMPANY03Pioneer RESPECT values apply to our employees, suppliers and contractors. Our Reporting Approach
This Sustainability Report highlights the specific sustainability-related governance and risk management 
measures we undertake to actively address issues important to both Pioneer and our internal and external stakeholders. Pioneer conducted an internal audit of this report to ensure subject matter experts in each 
department provided adequate supporting documentation and data to substantiate the information disclosed in this report. As there is no one set of ESG reporting metrics, Pioneer has utilized the recommendations of the following leading standard setting organizations for disclosed information and reporting scope.OUR COMPANY05Sustainability Reporting Materiality AssessmentStakeholder Engagement
Pioneer prioritizes a constructive and transparent relationship with internal and external stakeholders to understand their respective views of perceived risks, the likelihood of their occurrence and potential impacts. Pioneer’s Investor Relations team facilitates communication with shareholders and answers 
questions about our business and ESG matters. Initial shareholder outreach occurs prior to the 
company’s annual meeting to discuss matters to be voted on at the meeting. Following the annual meeting, additional shareholder outreach occurs to review a wider range of topics of concern. During 2019, feedback from this engagement process covered a variety of topics, including strategy, risk management, executive compensation and ESG priorities. The concerns expressed by the company’s shareholders in these discussions were collected, reviewed and shared with the Board of Directors (the Board). This engagement process led to several actions in this report and those detailed in our 2020 Proxy Statement.
In addition to shareholder engagement, Pioneer annually solicits feedback from ESG rating agencies, shareholder services and non-government 
organizations on our Sustainability Report. Pioneer also engages with ESG rating agencies, experts 
and industry organizations to better align our ESG policies and disclosures with their stated priority issues for the upstream oil and gas industry. Pioneer periodically conducts a materiality 
assessment to identify and prioritize sustainability topics we believe are most significant to our 
stakeholders. The content prioritization of this report is the result of an ongoing process that 
considers internal perspectives, stakeholder 
feedback and relevant reporting guidelines. 
These data points inform our sustainability strategy and have contributed to improved, broader disclosures in this report.We expect the content of our sustainability reporting 
to evolve as Pioneer assesses and responds to continued feedback and as changes to our asset base and operating 
footprint warrant. Our Annual Report and financial filings include material risks as defined by regulatory requirements or that we believe are material to our investors. Detailed analysis of our financial performance can also be found in our Annual Report.2020 Sustainability Report Priorities: Formalizing governance of 
climate-related risks and opportunities Emission and flaring targets Increasing policy transparency Risk management Diversity and inclusion Human rightsHuman capital managementPrioritizing Material Issues