Chapter 3GovernancePioneer’s Board and executive management team recognize that strong corporate 
governance drives alignment with the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders, 
and strengthens our culture, provides 
accountability and ensures the sustainability 
of our organization.GOVERNANCE12Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Board of DirectorsThe Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s assessment 
of major risks, and the measures taken to manage such risks. The company and the Board view sustainable development as a 
multidisciplinary approach to our business, which balances economic growth, environmental stewardship and social responsibility. In addition, the Board takes an active role in the design and implementation of our ESG strategy, while working with management to cultivate our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) culture. Continuing director 
education is an important part of our Governance process and is 
provided via two primary avenues: (i) during regularly scheduled Board and committee meetings; and (ii) during specifically scheduled director education sessions. Education provided during regularly scheduled Board and committee meetings focuses on topics that assist the Board in discharging its duties, including updates on specific matters covered by each committee and periodic site visits. Director education sessions generally focus on topics that are of interest to Pioneer and its stakeholders. For example, in 2021, director education sessions focused on areas related to the energy transition, alternative energy technologies, carbon emission offset markets, ESG and other relevant topics.  
Pioneer Governance practices are described in our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines. To view details about our Board members, visit: PXD.com > Culture > Governance.  Board Committees 
Sustainability and Climate Oversight Committee (SCOC) The SCOC is responsible for the oversight of the company’s climate strategy as well as overseeing Pioneer’s annual Sustainability Report and Climate Risk Report publications. The Chairman of the Board leads the committee, whose membership includes the chairpersons 
of the Board’s other four standing committees and directors with 
experience in ESG and in the energy transition. The committee meets regularly with leaders and employees to provide oversight and strategic direction to those responsible for managing and implementing 
targets, goals, actions and reporting related to sustainability and climate matters. The SCOC oversees our public disclosures regarding climate change and ESG matters and has additional responsibilities including:   • ESG Trends, Risks and Opportunities – Monitoring environmental, 
   social, governance, and public policy trends, issues and concerns,      
   along with other matters related to sustainability, corporate 
   responsibility and climate change that could affect Pioneer’s business.   • Climate-related Risk Management – Providing oversight for 
    Pioneer’s climate-related risk processes and mitigation plans.  • Goals and Targets – Coordinating and providing input alongside    
    other Pioneer Board committees and executive leadership in 
    setting performance metrics used to monitor our ESG-related    
    goals and targets, such as emission-reduction targets, and 
    evaluating compensation awards based on performance.   • Recommendations to the Board – Reporting recommendations    
   for actions to be considered and/or adopted by the Board or Pioneer. From left to right: Jacinto Hernandez, A.R. Alameddine, Phillip Gobe, Matthew Gallager, Stacy Methvin, Phoebe Wood, Royce Mitchell, 
J. Kenneth Thompson, Scott Sheffield, Edison Buchanan, Maria Jelescu Dreyfus, Lori George Billingsley and Frank Risch. GOVERNANCE13Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Committee The committee oversees the company’s HSE and sustainability
 practices, including:   • Management efforts to create a culture of safety and 
     environmental protection   • Review and approval of Pioneer HSE goals   • Periodic performance-improvement progress reports In addition to providing oversight of our HSE practices, the committee members periodically visit Pioneer operational facilities and speak with employees, learning firsthand about Pioneer field operations and what our Board members can do to better support HSE efforts. Additional committee oversight actions relevant to ESG include the following topics:  • HSE Risk Management – Reviewing the company’s responses and 
   actions related to current and emerging HSE and climate change-
   related issues, including trends in legislation and proposed regulations 
   that would affect the company. Providing policy oversight with     
   respect to risk assessment and risk management arising from HSE    
   practices, including related operational cybersecurity risks (e.g., field 
   automation and communication systems). • HSE Management Systems – Reviewing Pioneer’s HSE management 
  systems, including processes to monitor compliance with applicable     
  legal and regulatory requirements. • HSE Goals – Reviewing and approving the company’s HSE goals, 
  monitoring performance toward those goals, including evaluating   
  compensation awards based on performance. • HSE Aspects of Sustainable Development – Receiving reports from 
  management and providing oversight for the HSE aspects of Pioneer 
  sustainability programs. Periodically receiving reports from 
  management on corporate security activities undertaken in support   
  of field HSE practices. • HSE Continuous Improvement – Monitoring management’s efforts 
  to create a culture of continuous improvement in the company’s safety   
  and environmental protection practices. Receiving regular 
  reports from management on HSE, ESG and sustainable 
  development actions.  • Board of Directors Communication – Making regular reports 
   to the Board about the committee’s activities and decisions. Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees Board and committee composition and succession planning and 
oversees the risks related to governance structures and processes. The committee oversight responsibility includes assisting the Board 
in identifying, evaluating, and monitoring social, governance, political, human rights and public policy trends, issues, and concerns, along with other sustainability and corporate responsibility matters that could affect the business and reputation of Pioneer, including 
climate change-related risks and opportunities. Information from 
this committee is reported to the Board for consideration and 
potential adoption of recommended actions. The committee is 
directly responsible for the oversight of:   • Charitable Contributions, Political Spending and Lobbying Activities –    Providing oversight of Pioneer charitable contributions, political       spending and lobbying activities, including receiving reports at 
   least annually related to Pioneer’s charitable contributions, political     
   spending and lobbying activities, including company-related 
   political action committees. • Related-party Transactions – Comprised of independent directors, 
   the committee must approve, ratify or reject related-party transactions. Compensation and Leadership Development Committee The Compensation and Leadership Development Committee has oversight of our human capital management, including Pioneer 
succession planning and talent development; development activities for executive officers and other key executives; strategies, initiatives and programs related to enhancing our company culture; talent 
recruitment, development and retention; employee engagement; 
diversity, equity and inclusion; and general health and welfare 
benefits. The committee is also responsible for aligning executive compensation with company performance, including the incorporation of sustainability, climate-related and social goals as part of the company’s overall ESG goals. Starting in 2022, Pioneer revised executive leadership’s annual cash bonus incentive program to adjust the annual incentive compensation weighting for ESG and HSE metrics to 15% and 5%, respectively. GOVERNANCE14Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board with overseeing financial and accounting risks, reporting processes, policies and practices, controls, and audits, as defined in the committee charter. Additionally, the Audit Committee oversees the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission’s (SEC) Rules on Auditor Independence, which requires that “lead” and “concurring” audit partners rotate off an engagement after a maximum of five years in either capacity and, upon rotation, must be off the engagement for five years. The committee also oversees the company’s cybersecurity risks as they relate to financial risk exposures and the security of data and information technology systems. Also, as the disclosure of climate-related data is further 
regulated, the Audit Committee will oversee the controls implemented 
at the company to address such disclosures.  Reserves Committee The Reserves Committee is responsible for the Board’s oversight of the proved reserves estimates process. The committee meets with Pioneer executives and employees responsible for overseeing the company’s proved reserves estimates prior to the company’s annual Form 10-K being filed with the Securities and Exhange Commission.  Board Diversity Pioneer is committed to having a Board comprised of diverse 
backgrounds, skills and professional experience in areas relevant 
to Pioneer’s business and strategy. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for identifying, evaluating 
and recommending nominees for election at annual shareholder meetings, and filling vacancies or making Board additions that may occur between annual meetings. In assessing the composition of the Pioneer Board, the Board and its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee strive to achieve an overall balance of diversity of backgrounds and experience at policy-
making levels with a complementary mix of skills and professional experience in areas relevant to the company’s business and strategy. The committee achieves that balance through Board representation in the areas of oil and gas engineering and operations, midstream and downstream segments of the energy industry, environmental policy, 
alternative energy, regulatory matters, ESG, safety, accounting, 
capital markets, corporate finance, corporate governance and diversity, equity and inclusion, and other areas. Additionally, two members of the Board, Phoebe A. Wood and Maria S. Dreyfus, serve on the Board of Directors of Invesco Ltd. and CDPQ, respectively. This 
experience with large asset management firms provides the Board with insight on topics important to large institutional investors.  If the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee recruits candidates from outside Pioneer as potential nominees to join the Pioneer Board, the committee includes, and instructs any third-party search firm to include, qualified candidates with a diversity of gender and race/ethnicity in the initial pool from which the committee selects director candidates.  Pioneer’s Board currently consists of thirteen individuals, of which 
four self-identify as women, and three self-identify as individuals from underrepresented communities (meaning, an individual who self-
identifies as Black, African American, Hispanic, Latino, Asian 
including the Middle East, Pacific Islander, Native American, Native Hawaiian, or Alaska Native, or who self-identifies as gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender).Additional Board demographic information is included in the Social Impacts section of this report and the Sustainability Performance Data Table.Executive ESG Leadership Executive Management Team/Management Committee A focus on sustainability begins with strong governance and committed leadership. The Pioneer Management Committee includes the chief executive officer, president and chief operating officer, chief financial officer, and 10 additional senior officers. This core leadership team 
is responsible for establishing and executing the company’s strategy as overseen by the Board, including assessing climate-related risks and opportunities. A key function of the Management Committee is overseeing HSE and ESG strategy and annual goal-setting and performance reviews. Consistent with all Pioneer employees, members of the Management Committee have financial incentives through our annual bonus program, 
focused on continuous improvements in the areas of health and safety, air emissions and climate issues, among others. During annual goal setting, the Management Committee defines, with input and approval from the Board, measures of success for each goal, which objectively evaluate performance. This proactive, incentive-based approach focuses on key HSE and ESG goals that ultimately position Pioneer to achieve long-term objectives and targets. ESG Task Force Established in 2020, the ESG Task Force comprises a subset of the Management Committee, officers, key leaders and subject matter experts from various disciplines across the company. Pioneer’s ESG Task Force is responsible for shaping our long-term ESG strategy and overseeing Pioneer corporate ESG goals and related reporting. The ESG Task Force ensures project resources are available and provides strategic direction and expert advice. ESG Task Force meetings occur monthly or as needed. The priority of the ESG Task Force is assessing, developing and progressing the following goals that are expected 
to align Pioneer’s ESG standards with stakeholder feedback and industry-leading practices, including:   • Increasing Board ESG oversight and engagement    • Moving forward with the company’s long-term net zero ambition, 
    complemented by interim emissions-intensity targets for GHGs 
    and methane, flaring intensity and freshwater use   • Aligning Pioneer risk management and decision-making processes 
     with voluntary reporting frameworks, including TCFD and 
     Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) principles   • Driving strategic and operational activities that position Pioneer 
     to meet long-term ESG continuous improvement targets, 
     including DEI goals   • Confirming the accuracy of data collection and reporting of key     
     ESG measures, particularly for GHG emissions (and its constituent 
     parts), including emissions-target performance tracking   • Sanctioning a third-party audit to provide emissions and intensities 
    data assurance    • Progressing our Supply Chain performance review of our 
     contractors, suppliers and service-providers related to ESG 
     and human rights   • Commissioning, completing and auditing the Sustainability Report Executive HSE Committee (HSEC) Pioneer’s Executive HSE Committee sets the company’s HSE vision and strategy for our operations. Executive leadership incorporates ESG objectives into annual HSE goal-setting sessions for all operational business units, and tracks and reports progress to the Management Committee and the HSE Committee. Executive, technical and field staff participate in the cross-functional HSEC. The committee 
convenes monthly to manage HSE issues, regulatory compliance 
and related opportunities, providing quarterly updates to the HSE Committee. The development and implementation of HSEC 
initiatives lie with seven subcommittees that work to enhance our HSE programs:  • Incident Management – Assesses and recommends improvements 
   to the incident management process, including reporting, investigation,      root-cause analysis and corrective action development • Contractor HSE – Manages our contractor engagement strategy 
   for HSE culture improvement • Safe Driving – Enhances the effectiveness of our safe-driving 
   program to reduce motor vehicle risk    • Proactive HSE – Develops and promotes opportunities in proactive     
   HSE processes • Air Emissions – Identifies and implements air emission-reduction     
   projects • Spills and Waste Management – Identifies and implements spill- 
   and waste-reduction projects • Management of Change – Provides a common platform to carefully     
  evaluate, manage and communicate HSE- and project-execution     
  risks before implementing a changeBoard Diversity GOVERNANCE15Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		GOVERNANCE16Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Enterprise Risk Management Pioneer utilizes a comprehensive enterprise risk management (ERM) process to identify, assess, manage and report our risks and opportunities, with the objective of integrating our risk management policies and procedures with our strategy.  The Board oversees Pioneer’s enterprise risk management program, while the Management Committee evaluates, manages and executes day-to-day management activities across the major risk categories comprised of general business and industry, operational, financial, HSE, and regulatory risks. The company reviews each principal risk for associated climate-related risk. Potential climate-related risks 
are further divided into transition risks that stem from the world’s 
transition to a lower-carbon economy or physical risks that result 
from acute and chronic physical impacts of climate change.  Our enterprise risk management process is summarized below:  
 • Company Strategy – Align company goals and risk identification 
   with the strategic objectives of the Management Committee and     
   Board of Directors • Risk Identification – Identify uncertainties/risks that could impact 
   the achievement of the company’s business objectives • Risk Assessment – Evaluate the risks identified and the possible 
   impact to the company • Risk Response – Determine risk mitigation plans and responses to    
   transfer, tolerate, terminate or otherwise address identified risks • Monitor and Report – Report identified risks in the enterprise risk   
  management matrix and continuously monitor those risks and   associated mitigation plans and responses Key business and other relevant risks are tracked and monitored in a detailed enterprise risk management matrix that aligns those risks with the appropriate management oversight processes and practices. Each principal risk identified has an assigned owner, generally an officer of the company whose responsibilities are most impacted by the potential 
risk or whose function aligns with the mitigation of the risk. Each owner is responsible for managing the overall risk and the associated mitigation plan in conjunction with relevant management or external support. An annual assessment of these risks is supplemented by quarterly, or as needed, updates on selected issues. Risks are rated and plotted within the enterprise risk management matrix according to how significant the risk is, how likely the risk is to occur, its impact on the business and how quickly the risk event could occur with 
current controls/strategies in place.Our Internal Audit organization facilitates an annual risk identification and assessment process that includes input from all business groups and corporate functions. During this process, existing risks are 
discussed for continued relevance and new risks are identified 
and discussed based on company, industry, global and regulatory developments. During this process, risk ratings, the likelihood and potential impact of all identified and assigned risks, as well as 
mitigation plans, are reassessed and updated by the owners. 
The updated ERM matrix is then distributed to the Management 
Committee for a holistic review to achieve alignment on risk 
identification, assessment and response. Following the review by 
the Management Committee, the updated ERM matrix is presented 
to the Board. Although the risk identification and assessment 
processes are formally executed on an annual basis, the ERM 
program is embedded into our day-to-day culture and the risk 
assessment, is updated throughout the year as needed.  Integration of Climate-related Risk Assessment into the Overall Risk Management Process  Pioneer believes the most effective approach to managing climate-
related risks is by integrating the assessment of these risks into our existing ERM process. Many of the physical risks (e.g., increased frequency and severity of storms) and transition risks associated with climate change have been previously identified as part of our ERM process and categorized according to the underlying risk to 
the enterprise. We believe the most robust management of enterprise risks occurs by fostering a corporate culture that encourages regular 
discussion and consideration of identified and emerging risks, including climate-related risks. We also ensure that the conclusions developed in our strategic and scenario planning processes are used to inform our ERM process in evaluating climate and other risks that could impact our business. To capture the increasing importance of climate-related risks in the company’s risk assessment, Pioneer has identified the following key focus areas:  • HSE Culture – Promoting a strong HSE culture through employee   
   engagement activities, training and communication. These programs    
   are used to educate, empower and encourage Pioneer employees    
   to focus on safety and environmental stewardship in their daily lives –     both at work and at home.  • Emission Mitigation Practices – Designing and constructing 
   infrastructure that provides better and more efficient emission controls. GOVERNANCE17Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		 • Water Management – Minimizing the use of freshwater in completion   
   activities by using reclaimed water and reusing produced water. • Landscape Stewardship – Engaging with third parties, including 
  government agencies, researchers, consultants and others to source    
  and explore new solutions for protecting local habitats and species 
  in the areas where we operate. • Supply Chain Management – Working with providers whose core     
  values and climate-related policies align with our own. Our supplier    
  onboarding process now incorporates data that benchmarks our 
  suppliers on a variety of ESG criteria, including human rights, social   
  and governance standards, as well as environmental policies and 
  sustainable procurement methods. This program is designed to 
  identify suppliers who are aligned with our ESG goals and policies    
  and to monitor the relationship between our spend with those 
  suppliers and their ESG scores. • Industry Collaboration – Working in a collaborative and transparent   
  manner with industry peers and other energy companies to discuss     
  climate-related risks and promote alignment on policies and procedures, 
  should an event occur. Climate-related risks are factored into our   
  corporate decision-making processes, including during the evaluation   
  of potential acquisitions or other business development opportunities.    
  In evaluating the Parsley and DoublePoint acquisitions, due diligence   
  procedures were completed to assess the impact on our GHG emissions,   
  as well as our emission-intensity reduction targets and flaring reduction   
  commitments. Consideration was given to how these companies’   
  historical emissions performance aligned with our own and the type 
  of mitigation efforts that would need to be implemented following   
  the acquisitions. Emergency and Crisis Management As part of our Emergency and Crisis Management program, key 
Pioneer personnel are trained to address emergencies or crises following our Emergency/Crisis Management Plan. The plan defines the systems, protocols and decision-making tools that could impact Pioneer during an emergency.  Our operations are entirely within areas of 24-hour coverage by public, regional or local emergency response organizations. In the event of an incident that immediately threatens the safety of people, Pioneer employees are delegated authority to communicate warnings to everyone at potential risk. Additional incident information is provided through our Corporate Communications department.Emergency management planning prepares us to carry out functions necessary to mitigate, respond to and recover from emergencies 
and disasters. In applicable situations, we employ the Incident 
Command System, a domestic incident management system 
integrating a combination of facilities, equipment, personnel, 
procedures and communications. Our business continuity plans 
document a predetermined set of instructions and procedures that outline how business functions will be sustained during and after a significant disruption. The primary goals are:   • Protecting people   • Protecting the environment   • Defining service alternatives for accomplishing critical applications   • Minimizing the extent of interruption   • Limiting financial losses and hardships   • Satisfying national and state compliance regulationsPotential risks requiring emergency response include:Death/InjuryFire/Explosion Well BlowoutHealth/Illness Oil or Chemical SpillCyber Attacks Airborne ReleaseTerrorismEvacuationKidnappingNatural DisastersViolence in the Workplace GOVERNANCE18Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Pioneer has determined critical business processes and developed continuity plans that can be deployed across our operations, business units, and support services in the event of a disaster. Tabletop 
exercises with these groups streamline processes, put risk mitigation plans into practice and increase plan effectiveness. We regularly 
test our business continuity plans and incident response procedures. For example, these efforts have been instrumental in Pioneer’s rapid response to the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 tested the effectiveness of our Emergency and Crisis Management program and our business continuity plans; however, both have performed extraordinarily well under challenging 
circumstances. Pioneer quickly recognized the risk that COVID-19 posed to our employees and business and activated our Crisis Management team (a comprehensive and cross-functional group of company leaders). Our primary concern, as always, was the health and safety of our employees, contractors and their families. We put numerous measures in place (following U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, State of Texas and county guidelines) to reduce the risk of exposure in both field and office settings. While essential field personnel continued reporting to work with specific safety protocols, we quickly transitioned office employees to a remote working environment with minimal business interruption. During 2021, the majority of our office employees returned safely 
to work through a disciplined workplace re-entry program. Pioneer continues to monitor and respond to the COVID-19 situation as needed. 
Security Personnel and Programs Security is a material risk for many oil and gas companies. Pioneer takes a preemptive security approach for those risks that are present within our operations. Pioneer participates in the Energy Security Council, which provides leading-edge security forces training. 
We are also an active member of the Permian Basin Oil Field Crime Committee. This committee promotes collaboration among its members, which include Permian Basin oil and gas company security departments and law enforcement agencies. Additionally, our security professionals maintain strong working relationships with national and state prosecutors, local officials, and police chiefs and officers. These relationships support our communities and are invaluable in conducting our business ethically and safely. They also allow for collaboration and assistance in preventing and prosecuting oilfield thefts. Pioneer employs internal security personnel to manage security for our staff, proprietary information and operations, including:   • Risk management   • Theft prevention  • Data loss protection  • Physical security   • Fraud prevention  • Internal and third-party audits  • Business practices  • Drug and alcohol compliance  • Commercial kickback prevention   • Travel compliance  • Site assessment and protection  • Entertainment and gift compliance  • Personnel protection  • Invoicing controls  • Illegal dumping protection and prevention  • Code of conduct investigations  • Conflict-of-interest management   • Workplace violence preventionGOVERNANCE19Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Cybersecurity Information security is the responsibility of our Technology Solutions team and is managed by our chief information officer (CIO). The Management Committee and Cybersecurity Steering Committee are engaged in information security/cybersecurity strategies and, along with our Board, provide the associated oversight. The CIO provides regular updates to the Board and its committees on company practices and mitigation strategies. The Audit Committee provides oversight of the company’s cybersecurity risks as they relate to financial risk exposure and the security of the company’s data and information technology systems. The HSEC provides oversight concerning 
operational technology cybersecurity risks and threats (i.e., field 
systems and related automation projects).   Pioneer’s information security team is comprised of highly trained security professionals who work with external partners in federal 
and local law enforcement and utilize expert cybersecurity firms 
and resources, all of which allow Pioneer to actively evaluate cyber threats and the ever-changing threat landscape.  Policies, procedures, and communication and training campaigns inform employees of the importance of information security and cybersecurity, potential threats, and appropriate preventive actions. Our cybersecurity policy is available to all employees, and they are required to acknowledge and observe the policy. Violation of this policy can result in disciplinary consequences, including termination. Responsible use of Pioneer information systems and data is also described in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Cybersecurity awareness training is required of all employees and contractors, with specific training for teams that have access to sensitive data or 
elevated access. Additionally, we frequently communicate with our employees and contractors about cybersecurity best practices.  
We mitigate our cybersecurity risks by aligning our cybersecurity 
program governance to the International Organization for 
Standardization and National Institute of Standards and Technology frameworks. Pioneer performs regular cybersecurity incident response testing utilizing the Crisis Management Team and conducts Disaster 
Recovery (DR) testing annually. Triannual third-party audits are conducted on our business and operational technology environments. This process is also subject to our annual Sarbanes-Oxley and financial 
third-party audits. Vulnerability analysis performed against these systems includes simulated hacker attacks. In 2021, Pioneer had no material financial or data losses from a cybersecurity incident. Data Governance and Management  Pioneer employees responsible for information and data governance actively assess master data domains and reports for suppliers, revenue, cost centers and operational information. By using enterprise resource planning tools and oil and gas data governance standards, we create data-quality standards, business rules and monitor data quality to prevent interruptions. In addition, our data specialists continue to develop tools for more detailed data glossaries and robust data traceability. Pioneer has a comprehensive HSE information management system that is used by departments throughout the company. The primary benefits of the system are:   • Improves visibility and accountability for HSE compliance  
     and culture throughout the organization   • Establishes an enterprise-level platform to enable Pioneer to 
     continue to standardize and improve our HSE risk management 
     processes     • Demonstrates our commitment to HSE and sustainability 
     through investment in tools that raise the level of employee 
     and management engagement   • Enables enhanced sharing of lessons learned and proactive 
     HSE indicators across the company and with our contractors   • Reduces technology costs and risks by moving to an industry-
     leading, cloud-based solution GOVERNANCE20Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value