OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY Pioneer is a significant contributor to the economies of the states and communities where we operate and where our employees work and live. The following table depicts the number of people Pioneer employed in each asset region and our north Texas headquarters in 2016, and the state and county taxes Pioneer paid in 2016. Production, or severance, taxes are levied by each state on companies producing natural resources. Ad valorem taxes are levied at a county level, and the producing resources are taxed according to their appraised fair market value. R EG IO N  # O F  JO B S  TA X E S  West Texas  2,091  jobs  in severance taxes: in ad valorem taxes:  $124.7 M $39.7 M  North Texas  1,087  jobs  in ad valorem taxes:  $1.1 M  South Texas  175  jobs  in severance taxes: in ad valorem taxes:  $22.7 M $10.4 M  Colorado  117  jobs  in severance taxes: in ad valorem taxes:  $396,000 $2.3 M  Texas Panhandle  98  jobs  in severance taxes: in ad valorem taxes:  $2.3 M $1.6 M  06. OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY Advocacy and Lobbying While the world’s energy mix continues to evolve, the demand for oil and gas is expected to remain strong for many years to come. Even under the International Energy Agency’s 2016 World Energy Outlook 450 Scenario, demand for oil is expected to be ~73MMBOE/day in 2040. To ensure the oil and gas industry is able to sustainably supply this resource, Pioneer actively works with industry partners to advocate for a secure energy future. Our ability to build relationships with elected officials and government regulators with honesty and integrity leads to just operations. As such, Pioneer actively participates in the political process, with the goal of informing policymakers and regulators about our business and advocating for policy solutions that mutually benefit the communities and states in which we operate, our industry, Pioneer, and our stockholders. National and State Trade Associations Pioneer believes industry collaboration is key to ensuring policymakers and the public are informed with facts. Pioneer actively participates in a number of national, regional and state trade associations representing the oil and gas industry. These associations allow us to join others in the industry in sharing information and advancing a common agenda on legislative and regulatory matters. Their purposes include education about the oil and gas industry and issues that affect it, industry best practices and standards, and enhancement of the public image of the industry. These groups may use a portion of the contributions made by Pioneer for political activities. Their efforts in this regard are subject to reporting requirements under federal and state laws. 06. OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY Below are the trade and business associations to which Pioneer made significant financial contributions in 2016 and that Pioneer considered strategic partners: 06. OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY Political Expenditures Pioneer has adopted a policy regarding political expenditures, which is set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and is applicable to all Pioneer directors and employees. Under the policy, no company funds may be used for political contributions in the United States, unless permitted by law, approved by the Chief Executive Officer, and then approved by either the General Counsel or Chief Compliance Officer. The charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of Pioneer’s Board of Directors provides for the committee’s oversight of all Pioneer political spending and lobbying activities. The committee, which is composed entirely of independent directors, and the full Board of Directors, receive an annual report from senior management regarding Pioneer political activities, including corporate contributions to issue campaigns or referenda, payments to 527 organizations, 501(c)(4) groups and other tax-exempt organizations, dues paid to trade associations, and political action committee (PAC) contributions. Corporate Political Contributions Pioneer may make occasional corporate contributions to political organizations and issue campaigns whose objectives are consistent with our business objectives in the areas in which we operate. While Pioneer’s directors and employees are free to participate in the political process individually, they may not represent a personal political contribution as being made on behalf of the company, and no director or employee may seek reimbursement, directly or indirectly, from Pioneer for any political contribution. Pioneer made the following corporate contributions in 2016: RECIPIENT  STATE  AMOUNT  Raise the Bar Protect Our Constitution  Washington, D.C.  $5,000  Better Begins Now Midland First  Texas  $20,000  06. OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY Political Action Committees Some of our employees contribute to PACs sponsored by Pioneer. The activities of the Pioneer PACs are subject to comprehensive governmental regulation, including detailed disclosure requirements. These disclosures are posted on the website of the Federal Election Commission or the Texas Ethics Commission, where they can be reviewed by members of the public. All distributions made from the PACs are approved by their respective boards, currently comprising senior members of management. All suggested distributions are reviewed to ensure they are consistent with legal limits and are delivered to entities eligible to receive PAC funds. All contributions to PACs are voluntary, and it is Pioneer’s policy that no one be favored or disadvantaged by reason of the amount of their contribution or their decision not to contribute. A comprehensive list of our PAC contributions for 2016 can be found on our website Advocacy page. 