LETTER FROM THE CEOWe are pleased to demonstrate our 
commitment to stewardship in this 2018 Pioneer Sustainability Report.In 2017, the year covered within this report, we 
announced a specific and ambitious 10-year goal to increase our production to 1,000,000 barrels of oil equivalent by 2027 – a 20 percent compound annual growth rate. Within the next five years, the United States is projected to become a net 
energy exporter, and the U.S. 
Energy Information Administration estimates that oil and gas will still account for nearly three-fourths of the country’s energy use in 2050.As a company, we understand that achieving our business goals requires continued commitment to programs and initiatives that protect the environment; 
promote the health, safety and 
professional development of our employees; ensure high standards of integrity and business conduct; and positively impact the communities 
in which we live and work. Last year, we introduced new safety and stewardship programs to highlight our ongoing prioritization of these two critical areas of our business. Safely8760 – the number of hours in a year – represents our goal of keeping each person safe every hour of every 
day of the year. Stewardship365 highlights our 
responsibility to protect the 
environment each day of the year, whether at work or at home. More information about the strategic 
principles of both programs can be found in this report.Also in 2017, we laid the foundation for an important initiative, the Permian Strategic Partnership, in which we will work together with other energy companies to invest in the communities in the Permian Basin. Our goal is 
to contribute to improving the fun.damental cornerstones of this region, such as housing, education, health care, workforce development and road safety. The Permian Strategic 
Partnership is in its earliest stages, and we are 
actively and strategically looking to partner with 
a diverse array of local stakeholders to address the needs of the Permian Basin for decades to come. “We know the 
importance of treating our 
employees as 
a priority – 
and we 
wholeheartedly understand they are what makes 
our business 
successful.”LETTER FROM THE CEO03Timothy L. Dove, President and Chief Executive OfficerIn 2017, we celebrated 20 years of Pioneer 
Natural Resources in our typical fashion – 
by giving back to the communities and 
employees who make it happen. As part of 
the $4 million in charitable contributions we made in 2017, we donated $200,000 in grants to employee-chosen charitable organizations within our operating areas. In addition, we continued our longstanding partnerships with organizations that promote essential elements of long-term success, such as financial 
independence, health, safety and education.We know the importance of treating our 
employees as a priority – and we wholeheartedly understand they are what makes our business successful. Coming in at No. 5 in the large company category, Pioneer once again made 
The Dallas Morning News’ Top 100 Places to Work, 
becoming one of only four companies whose 
employees’ feedback has kept them in the top 10 each year since its inception nine years ago.At our core, we truly believe in our people and the core values that make our company what it is today: distinct goals, strong ethics, a diverse and inclusive workforce, and a focus on safety and environmental stewardship. We remain steadfast in our commitment to helping meet the world’s need for abundant, affordable energy in a responsible manner. Sincerely,Timothy L. DovePresident and Chief Executive OfficerLETTER FROM THE CEO04REPORTING PRINCIPLES
Pioneer’s Sustainability Report highlights the specific sustainability-related 
governance and risk management 
measures we undertake to actively 
address issues important to both 
Pioneer and our internal and 
external stakeholders. 

To more effectively prioritize and 
manage our Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) information, the company formed a Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Committee comprised of executive leadership and subject matter 
experts from key functions in 
our organization.

The CSR Committee, a subcommittee of the Pioneer Corporate Environmental Committee, reviews and prioritizes sustainability issues relevant to 
Pioneer and guides the company’s sustainability reporting relative to 
our peer group and industry. REPORTING PRINCIPLES05RATONWESTPANHANDLECORPORATEOFFICEPERMIANEAGLE FORDSHALEReporting FrameworkOur 2018 Sustainability Report references 
the reporting standards, terminology, and 
performance metrics developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, DisclosingTheFacts.org, and International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA). To help stakeholders locate this information, we have indexed relevant GRI, DisclosingTheFacts.org and IPIECA metrics beginning on page 49 of this report.Reporting ScopeUnless otherwise indicated, the 2018 Pioneer Natural Resources Sustainability Report
includes data and information from January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2017, and is focused on our direct operations as outlined in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.Prioritizing Reporting TopicsThis sustainability report focuses on topics we 
believe are most relevant to Pioneer’s operations and business success, and of greatest interest to 
our stakeholders. The content prioritization of this report is the result of a process that considers a variety of sources, including: feedback from our employees, investors and key external stakeholders; updates within the sustainability reporting guidelines that we reference; and the guidelines of GRI and other third-party frameworks’ industry organizations. We expect the content of our sustainability reporting to evolve as Pioneer’s leadership analyzes and responds to feedback from both internal and external stakeholders.REPORTING PRINCIPLES06COMPANY OVERVIEW 
AND CORPORATE STRATEGYPioneer Natural Resources Company (“Pioneer”) is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company operating in the United States. In 2018, we announced our 
intent to become a Permian Basin 
pure-play company by divesting our assets in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas, the Raton field in southern 
Colorado and the West Texas Panhandle field. (Both the Raton and West 
Panhandle asset sales finalized in 2018.)
Pioneer is the largest operator in the liquids-rich Midland Basin, with approximately 750,000 gross acres under lease. With more than 20,000 horizontal and vertical drilling 
locations in the Basin, Pioneer has set an ambitious goal of producing 1,000,000 barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) per day by 2027. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY073,827
EMPLOYEES2,430EMPLOYED IN 
FIELD & PLANT OPERATIONSOF OUR TOTAL FIELD & PLANT OPERATIONS EMPLOYEES1,246 EMPLOYED BY 
PUMPING SERVICES, WELL SERVICES & 
SAND MINING SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES. PIONEER AT A GLANCE  • DECEMBER 31, 2017COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY08PROVED RESERVES ENTERPRISE VALUE985~$30BILLIONMILLIONBOE(YEAR END 2017)(YEAR END 2017)PIONEER AT A GLANCENET PRODUCING WELLSAVERAGE DAILY PRODUCTION~9,300FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (2017)~272,000BOE(YEAR END 2017)COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY0909Board of DirectorsGovernancePioneer’s governance practices are described 
in our Corporate Governance Guidelines. Pioneer’s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the company’s assessment of major risks, including those related to sustainable development, and the resulting measures taken to manage such risks. Pioneer views sustainable development as a multidisciplinary approach to our business, which balances economic growth, environmental stewardship and social responsibility. 
The Pioneer Board includes two committees with corporate sustainability oversight.Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Committee: The HSE Committee oversees broad company health, safety, environmental, and sustainability practices, including management efforts to 
create a culture of continuous improvement 
in safety and environmental protection practices. The committee reviews both performance and goals for Pioneer’s health, safety and environmental programs on a quarterly basis; reports to the 
full Board on health, safety and environmental 
matters at least once per year; and provides 
oversight to company management regarding 
the company’s sustainable development 
program, including sustainability reporting.  Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee: The Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee oversees risks related to governance structures and processes, including Board and 
committee composition and succession planning; director independence; and Pioneer charitable 
contributions, political spending and lobbying activities. The detailed responsibilities for each committee are outlined in their respective Committee Charters.COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY10Active Board ParticipationThe HSE Board of Directors’ 
committee members take an 
active role in continuing to 
cultivate our HSE culture and performance improvement. 
In addition to providing oversight for our HSE practices, the 
committee members regularly 
visit Pioneer’s operational facilities and speak with employees personally, learning firsthand about Pioneer field operations and what the company’s Board 
of Directors can do to provide better support for safety, health and environmental initiatives. Through these visits, the committee members are able to assess many different aspects of our operations, interact directly with Pioneer 
employees in the field, see the latest environmental innovations being tested and report their 
observations to the full Board 
of Directors. Additionally, as part of the 
evolution of our sustainability disclosures, the Board formed an ad hoc committee that included, among other directors, the chair of the HSE committee and the Board’s independent lead director, to provide oversight and guidance for the company’s preparation 
of its inaugural sustainability 
report, published in 2017, as well as this report. Role of Pioneer LeadershipBuilding on the Board of Directors’ active oversight role, executive, technical and field staff participate in several cross-functional committees:  • Pioneer Corporate Safety Committee  • Pioneer Corporate Environmental Committee  • Pioneer Public Policy Engagement CommitteeThese committees convene regularly to manage HSE and sustainability issues effectively and 
consistently, conducting monthly reviews of 
HSE performance, including current and emerging HSE issues and continuous improvement.Commitment to Ethical OperationsOur Code of Business Conduct and Ethics represents the standards of integrity and business conduct that every Pioneer employee, officer and director must uphold and follow. Pioneer supports multiple methods of reporting compliance concerns, including
anonymous reporting through our toll-free compliance hotline and online compliance portal, and we strictly prohibit retaliation against any person for providing truthful information relating to a possible violation of law or company policy.Pioneer Board members and 
members of the Pioneer Water 
Management team in the 
Permian Basin09COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY12Our Pioneer Core Values, based on the concept of RESPECT, are the 
foundational principles on which our company is built:13A Winning Combination: Safely8760 and Stewardship365Safely8760 and Stewardship365, which were both introduced in 2017, are our latest companywide initiatives that highlight the principles that make up our commitment to safety and environmental stewardship. We actively engage and encourage our employees to take care of themselves, their coworkers, their family and our environment by taking these initiatives to heart. As a company, we’ve set a clear tone: Your job is never so urgent or important that you cannot take the time to do it safely and in a manner that is environmentally sound.	        There are 8,760 hours in a year. 
                  As a company, we ask our employees and contractors to be mindful of safety every hour of every day – whether at work or at home –
which is why we named our Pioneer safety 
initiative Safely8760.Here are the foundational principles of our Safely8760 program:  • Commitment: Build a proactive culture of safety  • Stop Work Authority: Ask questions and “stop     
     the job” if necessary  • Aware and Engaged: Prevent incidents at    
     home and at work  • Communication: Share knowledge and 
     lessons learned  • Continual Improvement: Be better, safer      every dayHaving a continual focus on safety is key to reducing overall incidents and potential lost-time events. The HSE team is actively working with those who report incidents and near misses, in order to identify opportunities for improvement to our operating practices and enhance data that we can use to correlate actions to incidents, giving us behavioral indicators to keep Pioneer employees and contractors safe.	        Pioneer’s environmental initiative,          		     Stewardship365 focuses on our 
responsibility to environmental stewardship each day of the year, whether at work or at home. Here are the foundational principles of our Stewardship365 program:
  • Responsible Operations: Respecting the air,    
    land and water  • Thoughtful Planning: Considering the 
     environment in decision-making  • Ownership: Empowering employees and 
     contractors to do the right thing  • Communication: Effectively sharing 
     knowledge and ideas  • Sustainable Practices: Creating value through  
     efficiency and innovation  • Continual Improvement: Reducing our 
     environmental footprintWe actively promote stewardship through 
employee engagement activities, training and communication campaigns to educate, empower and encourage Pioneer employees to continue improving their environmental focus each and every day.