Chapter 5Water ManagementProtecting water: A PXD Priority Water is essential to hydrocarbon production, since it is needed to carry out hydraulic fracturing – the process by which large quantities of water are pumped into a wellbore to enlarge fractures in rock and extract hydrocarbons. This is the main way Pioneer extracts oil in the Permian Basin. Therefore, it is important to carefully manage water availability in the Permian Basin at both the sourcing and production stages of development. Pioneer prioritizes careful water management and has a dedicated team of experts within our subsidiary, Pioneer Water Management LLC (PWM), that has led our innovative water management initiatives since 2014. Water shortages in West Texas, whether due to drought or competition 
for resources, could significantly affect our operations, since we develop horizontal wells using hydraulic fracturing. Climate change poses a significant risk because it could decrease groundwater availability.  Pioneer understands the critical need to carefully manage freshwater use in a world of increasing demand. Freshwater is found in lakes, rivers, wetlands, and groundwater aquifers below the surface. Pioneer does not use surface water resources, relying instead on groundwater resources and treated municipal wastewater, which is known as reclaimed 
water, and an increasing amount of recycled water.  WATER MANAGEMENT34Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial ValueIn 2018, Pioneer and the city of Midlandinitiated construction on an innovative infrastructure project: the upgrade of the city’s wastewater treatment facility with the goal of using the resulting reclaimed water in Pioneer’s completion operations. Pioneer has successfully achieved substantial completion on its 
$134 million investment in the city’s wastewater treatment plant, providing residents this critical infrastructure 
upgrade in return for up to two billion barrels of 
reclaimed water or 28 years, whichever occurs first, including options to extend. The Midland project will expand Pioneer’s exclusive water rights for reclaimed water, joining our existing purchases already established by contract with the city of Odessa. Securing a large supply of non-freshwater for our operations is a key component of our strategy to reduce the use of 
freshwater. These innovative, industry-leading water projects developed by PWM mutually benefit both 
Pioneer and the cities. 

They are important projects to the cities by enhancing critical local infrastructure while sustainably providing Pioneer with billions of barrels of non-freshwater for use in our operations. In addition, this reduces demand for freshwater in a drought-prone area, curtails water transport trucking and industrial traffic in a congested region, and compensates the cities for wastewater, providing a newfound revenue stream that otherwise would not exist. WATER MANAGEMENT35Water
ManagementEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial ValueFreshwater Use Reduction TargetAt Pioneer, we are committed to maximizing our use of non-fresh 
water sources, which minimizes our use of freshwater in order to reduce our impact on the freshwater resources in the Permian Basin. As part of this goal, we set a new, more aggressive target this year to reduce our freshwater usage to 20% or less of total completions operations by the end of 2026. Using produced water for hydraulic fracturing is the most effective way to preserve groundwater resources and minimize the need for disposal. Therefore, we are prioritizing this method above others as much as possible.  Our reporting includes use of freshwater in both drilling and 
completion operations; however, our freshwater usage reduction 
target is focused on the use of freshwater within our completions operations. We are also actively pursuing methods of reducing 
freshwater use in stages of drilling operations consistent with regulatory 
requirements. Best practices require the use of freshwater when 
drilling through shallow zones to protect groundwater resources. Therefore, Pioneer is limited in its ability to reduce freshwater usage in drilling operations. Additional information on our use of freshwater in drilling is provided in the following section on groundwater protection.  Our freshwater reduction targets are supported by our actions, 
which include:  •Investing in infrastructure that allows us to better utilize non-
    freshwater sources, including produced water and reclaimed water 
    from Midland and Odessa. •Avoiding surface water resources
•Continuously monitoring our production and consumption of
groundwater•Maximizing recycled, reclaimed and non-freshwater resources
in our operationsProduced Water Gathering Pipelines and Systems Pioneer gathers and separates well fluids, including produced water, at centralized facilities, often referred to as Tank Batteries. After 
separation, the produced water is transported by pipeline to both SWDs and produced water recycling facilities, eliminating the need
to truck water. Pioneer connects our produced water gathering 
pipelines into networked systems where water is aggregated and 
distributed across multiple SWDs and recycling facilities. The ability to move produced water within networked systems is key to operating efficiently. Moving produced water in this manner provides operational redundancy, risk mitigation and cost efficiency. Connected systems aggregate water volumes into a larger baseload that provides economies of scale for treatment. Also, connecting to more facilities provides redundancy against downtime on any single facility and produced water takeaway optionality. Our networked 
systems also provide the flexibility to move water away from areas with high development or where disposal options are constrained 
to another system with available capacity. 
Produced Water Recycling Pioneer utilizes proven and available technology to chemically and mechanically treat produced water to meet standards acceptable for storage and transportation. After the produced water is treated in recycling facilities, it is transferred into the mainline supply system where it is stored and transported to completions operations. Recycling simultaneously eliminates the need to source freshwater and inject produced water. Pioneer produces more water than we consume in our operations and therefore cannot rely on recycling alone to manage produced water. Still, Pioneer has increased our reuse of recycled produced water over tenfold since 2018.  Strategic Flexibility and Future Evaluations The flexibility provided by Pioneer’s produced water infrastructure, combined with its substantial mainline supply infrastructure, allows 
it to provide significant volumes of recycled produced water for hydraulic fracturing. These two systems operate independently but are connected at produced water recycling facilities. Our mainline supply infrastructure 
allows us to deliver recycled water to completions operations across our acreage throughout the Permian Basin.   Pioneer is evaluating additional options for managing produced 
water, including evaporation and desalination for surface discharge. WATER MANAGEMENT36Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE CultureEach type of water is ranked by priority, with Tier 1 representing the highest priority after considering our commitments to limited utilization of freshwater, cost and efficiency of operations, and the parameters 
of the PWM distribution system. Our ability to decrease our freshwater sourcing as a percent of total consumption to 41% provides evidence that this strategy is effective and viable.   Reducing Freshwater Use  Pioneer has experience with many technologies for recycling water, ranging from desalination to minimal treatment techniques, to avoid using freshwater for hydraulic fracturing. Thanks to advances in technology, hydraulic fracturing can now be carried out using 100% recycled water instead of freshwater.   Pioneer has completed wells using only recycled produced water and continues to do so where feasible. A key driver for our freshwater reduction target is our mainline water supply infrastructure, where 
our goal is to operate with as close to 100% non-freshwater sourcing as possible. Our mainline infrastructure provides us with strategic 
flexibility to move our recycled and reclaimed sources over long 
distances to support our freshwater reduction goals. Pioneer has prioritized its water sources using the following tiers: •Tier 1 – Recycled Water (Most Sustainable)•Tier 2 – Reclaimed Water•Tier 3 – Brackish Groundwater•Tier 4 – Fresh Groundwater (2026 Reduction Target)•Not used – Surface freshwaterDefining Freshwater Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) refers to the total mineral content of the water and is a standard way to measure water quality. While many other operators define freshwater as less than 1,000 mg/L TDS or less than 2,000 mg/L TDS, Pioneer defines freshwater using a more stringent standard of less than 3,000 mg/L TDS. While we recognize the 1,000 mg/L TDS is sometimes suitable, this limit does not 
realistically capture how water is used in the Permian Basin. 
Much of this area depends 
on lower quality water sources 
1,000 to 3,000 mg/L TDS) 
for local agricultural irrigation, ranching and drinking water desalinization consumption.   Therefore, we have adopted 
this stringent threshold to 
avoid using groundwater 
that competes with local 
consumption needs and to 
be consistent with the Texas 
Railroad Commission’s 
groundwater protection 
process. In the Permian Basin 
and other areas, it is important 
to broaden the definition of 
freshwater to include usable-
quality water to account for 
local uses in drought-prone 
and water-stressed areas, 
particularly over the long term. The difference between these definitions of freshwater is significant. For example, in 2020 Pioneer 
reported 42% of water consumed as freshwater based upon a 3,000 mg/ L TDS limit. When applying the lower threshold of 1,000 mg/ L TDS, Pioneer’s 2020 freshwater consumption is estimated to be less than 5%* based on the water study outlined in the table above.   Some oil and gas operator asset portfolios may also include conventional reservoirs that require the recirculation of large volumes of non-
freshwater for enhanced oil recovery techniques. Reporting practices 
that include water used for enhanced oil recovery can add large 
volumes of water into the normalization factors, positively skewing total freshwater intensity as a percentage of total water use. Since 
our operations do not require these enhanced oil recovery techniques, our reported freshwater use reflects the relevant drilling and completion operations and is only comparable to similar operations. The activities of many other operators with conventional assets will make direct comparisons challenging. Additional water use metrics are provided in the figure table above and in our Sustainability Performance Data Table.**This study was performed using 2020 water data to quantify and illustrate the significant difference between common TDS thresholds used when reporting water impacts. *Percentage of all pioneer freshwater based on a study completed using freshwater withdrawal location information and freshwater volumes consumed in 2020. WATER MANAGEMENT37Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value		Baseline Water Stress The World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas shows that, using our broader definition of freshwater, 54% of our freshwater was sourced from areas of high or extremely high baseline water stress. The other 46% was sourced from water wells in areas of low-to-
medium baseline water stress. Further evaluation, using the World Resources Institute’s Overall Water Risk weighting for the oil and gas industry, indicates that our operational footprint does not contain areas of high or extremely high overall groundwater risk. We approach local water use with respect for its value and have a meaningful action plan to further reduce our use over time.  2021 Performance  Future Opportunities We currently rely on local infrastructure to support our development needs. As our development and production grow, Pioneer continues to evaluate alternative methods of water management, including actively pursuing desalination projects with the potential for other beneficial reuse opportunities beyond oil and gas operations.
Protecting Groundwater  Pioneer designs, drills, completes and maintains its wells to protect groundwater quality and meet strict regulatory requirements. Pioneer incorporates measures to minimize the risk of groundwater impact, including highly regulated casing and cement designs, safety and monitoring systems, and ensuring ample rock barriers between 
hydrocarbon and freshwater zones. Texas regulations require that wells be drilled using freshwater prior to reaching the base of protected groundwater. They also mandate that companies ensure the mechanical integrity of wellbore casing and utilize cement barriers. Pioneer performs mechanical integrity testing, as prescribed by the Texas Railroad Commission, throughout the well’s production life cycle. In accordance with industry standards and best practices, we test the surface casing integrity on all of the wells we drill.  In addition to the traditional well integrity testing, Pioneer also 
conducts formation integrity testing, an industry-leading best 
practice. The process begins with isolating usable groundwater zones from the well operations by 1) setting three layers of protective casing from the surface to below usable groundwater resources; 
2) circulating cement between the steel casings; and 3) injecting cement between the outer casing and the rock formation. The cement is allowed to set before the start of the formation integrity test. The wellbore is pressurized and monitored to verify isolation and protection. Once confirmed, the drilling operation proceeds to the total depth of the well where we perform a typical mechanical integrity test. During the well completion process, Pioneer installs pressure gauges to monitor and test the annular space between the inner and outer well casing. Completions equipment on the surface provides 
redundant protections against over-pressuring the wellbore during completion operations. In 2021, 100% of Pioneer’s completed wells were tested in this manner. 
Once our wells move to the production phase, we actively manage well integrity with corrosion countermeasures through a cathodic protection program. Pioneer engineers remotely monitor production well-casing pressures via our SCADA system. This is in addition to the periodic well-integrity tests mandated by the Texas Railroad Commission. Issues identified through active operational monitoring or tests are resolved through standard procedures and in coordination with the Texas Railroad Commission. Wells may then be included in an active monitoring program, on a case-by-case basis, to verify continued casing integrity. We will monitor, manage and test future wells using these same methods.  Managing Produced Water  Produced water is the wastewater associated with oil and gas 
exploration, development, and production activities. Pioneer utilizes two methods of managing produced water. One method involves injecting the water into underground reservoirs using saltwater 
disposal wells (SWDs). The other method involves treating the 
produced water at recycling facilities for reuse in completions operations. Pioneer owns and operates most of its produced water 
infrastructure, including gathering pipelines, SWDs and produced water recycling facilities. As Pioneer’s frac demand for completions operations and water consumption has grown, produced water recycling has become more important, because recycling provides both a reliable source of non-freshwater and minimizes injection volumes. For that reason, we prioritize produced water recycling over water injection.  Pioneer owns and operates SWDs and uses third party SWDs to dispose of water. Pioneer complies with national and state regulations – including those imposed by the Texas Railroad Commission — on underground injection control regarding injection rate and pressure monitoring, pressure testing, and mechanical integrity testing. Pioneer also takes seismicity risk into account when deciding where to locate SWDs by using the latest science and our own extensive data.  WATER MANAGEMENT38Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial ValueWATER MANAGEMENT39Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueGovernanceHSE CultureAvoiding Seismicity Risks Research has shown that seismic monitoring and active management of produced water disposal are the best tools to avoid induced 
seismicity. At Pioneer, we use both techniques.  
Pioneer approaches issues of seismicity proactively by using scientific analysis and collaborating with regulators and researchers. Since 2017, Pioneer has monitored seismicity using a propriety network of monitoring sensors in the Midland Basin, supplemented by Texas’ TexNet Seismic Monitoring and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Earthquake Hazards Program. These seismometers across the state allow us to better understand earthquakes and related risks. Pioneer complies with federal and state regulations regarding 
underground injection control. We actively engage with state regulators 
and industry groups, including the Texas Railroad Commission (RRC), to address seismicity concerns. Pioneer works closely with other operators and the RRC to develop science-based approaches 
addressing seismicity, create contingency responses for seismic events, and determine how to best work with regulatory agencies. Recently increased seismic activity has been observed throughout the Permian Basin. Proactive industry collaboration with state regulators and research institutions has contributed to mitigation actions by the RRC. These actions have promoted operational transparency, increased seismic monitoring and allowed for continued responsible disposal operations, along with some disposal restrictions in certain areas of the basin.  Although very few of Pioneer’s disposal wells have been impacted 
by regulatory restrictions, we will take a proactive approach to address seismic activity in our areas of operation  by using our water for infrastructure to provide flexibility in water reuse and alternative disposal options away from sensitive areas. The primary  focus is to use produced water for completions operations, followed by alternate disposal zones or areas that do not contribute to seismicity. Additionally, 
we continue to evaluate desalination  technologies that could provide 
a better long-term solution for  produced water that cannot be reused in our operations. Using the latest science and taking advantage of our extensive subsurface data set to improve our operational knowledge, Pioneer incorporates seismicity risk analysis in the siting of both our production and saltwater-disposal well locations. 
We contribute funding and provide information to leading and independent seismological researchers at the Stanford Center for Induced and Triggered Seismicity (SCITS) and the University of Texas Center for Induced Seismicity Research (CISR). In 2021, SCITS research, supported by Pioneer and other oil and gas industry sponsors, made important scientific contributions regarding seismicity risk. Specifically, the researchers gained insight into the management of injection-induced seismic risk, the use of machine learning for induced seismicity using local, regional, and international case studies. Additionally, our collaboration with CISR has continued to provide research and resources regarding the characteristics and mechanisms of seismicity, subsurface interpretation, basin modeling, engineering and hydrology.WATER MANAGEMENT40Our Reporting ApproachWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value