Our CompanyPioneer is a large independent U.S. oil and gas exploration and production company headquartered in Dallas, Texas. The company’s primary field operations take place on private lands in the heart of the Permian Basin of West Texas. 
The company operates 961,000 gross acres and has a drilling inventory 
of more than 15,000 locations. In 2021, the company’s production averaged 
617 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day. Pioneer employs more than 
1,900 full-time workers.961,000 acres gross acres617,000 barrels 
of oil equivalent per day of production in 2021>15,000 locationsof high-return drilling inventory>1,900 employeesfull-time2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT032022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES Our MissionPioneer’s mission is to be America’s leading independent energy company, focused 
on value, safety, the environment, technology and our greatest asset, our people. 
The company’s long-term investment thesis is centered around the following 
strategic objectives: 		Maintaining a strong balance sheet and financial flexibility 		Returning free cash flow to shareholders via a stable and growing   
		base dividend, a variable dividend and share repurchases		Utilizing the company’s scale and technology advancements to 		reduce costs, improve efficiency and create value		Delivering profitable production and reserve growth through drilling,                      completion and production improvement activities   		Setting high expectations for employees and contractors to perform 			          their jobs in a safe manner 		Maintaining industry-leading sustainable development and 		environmental stewardship efforts that mitigate climate change risks 		Adopting leading governance and employee engagement practices, 		including embracing diversity and inclusion and supporting the 		communities in which we live and operate The company’s long-term strategy is anchored by the company’s interest in the 
long-lived Spraberry/Wolfcamp oil field located in the Midland Basin in West Texas, 
which has an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 50 years.  2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT04Our Reporting ApproachOur ESG StrategyEmissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipLetter from the CEOSocial ValueGovernanceHSE CultureChapter 1Letter from the CEOAs Pioneer celebrates our 25th anniversary in 2022, I am especially proud to share our progress in advancing the company’s environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) goals in our sixth Sustainability Report. As we reflect on a quarter century in the energy business, sustainability at Pioneer is not only about responsible development of natural 
resources – which we proudly carry as part of our name – it also encompasses the way we treat our employees, contractors, partner companies, suppliers, communities and the environment with 
RESPECT. From our Board of Directors (Board) to our employees 
in West Texas and Dallas, the people of Pioneer are committed to 
doing business the right way. Operating with integrity in a safe, 
efficient and sustainable manner is critical to our mission to 
become America’s leading independent energy company. We take pride in being a responsible supplier of affordable energy for the world. Pioneer’s affordable, reliable, low-emission oil and gas is more important now than ever. Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine is resulting in boycotts of Russian oil and gas and acute shortages of energy supply for the free world. We remain committed to maintaining a supply of responsibly sourced energy in the face of these shortages. In addition, the company and our employees have committed significant resources to humanitarian aid to help the people of Ukraine. Our support, thoughts and prayers are with the Ukrainian people as they fight for their freedom.  For 25 years, we have successfully navigated volatile energy markets 
by building one of the best asset portfolios in the industry and maintaining a commitment to financial discipline and operational excellence in developing those assets. Our low-breakeven, long-lived Midland Basin assets are competitive with the most economic basins in the world and help supply the world with low-cost, low-emission oil and gas. Our purpose is to be the country’s leading independent energy
company with a focus on value, safety, environment, technology and our people. This purpose can only be achieved through the hard work, technical prowess and integrity of the people of Pioneer.  This report describes the important progress we made throughout 2021 on emissions management, freshwater use, health and safety
performance, diversity, equity and inclusion, and governance oversight and responsibility, among other issues. These achievements came at a critical time for the company as we completed the integration of two strategic acquisitions, Parsley Energy (Parsley) and DoublePoint Energy (DoublePoint). Pioneer has worked diligently to bring these newly acquired assets in line with our exemplary operational and 
environmental standards. Additionally, the divestiture of our 
Delaware Basin assets at the end of 2021 allows us to focus our 
efforts exclusively on our top-tier Midland Basin assets. As we celebrate our 25th anniversary, we look forward to continued growth and success over the next 25 years, while also making progress towards our long-term ambition to achieve net zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from our operations. We regularly monitor our progress against our interim greenhouse gas (GHG) and methane emissions intensity targets, and we are pleased to report 22% 
reduction in GHG emissions intensity and a 50% reduction in 
methane emissions intensity from our 2019 baseline while consolidating new assets into our operations. Our 0.41% flaring intensity in 2021 remains below our 1% target, and Pioneer has now fully committed to zero routine flaring by 2025, in accordance with World Bank standards. Progress in these emission standards was achieved in 2021 while incorporating newly acquired assets from Parsley and DoublePoint. Also, to add greater reliability in our reporting, Pioneer has engaged third party experts to provide limited assurance of the company’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions included in this report.  We continue to commit to even more aggressive emissions reductions and increased transparency in emissions reporting. We recently joined the Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 (OGMP), making Pioneer among the first U.S. operators to participate in this voluntary private-
public coalition with leadership and oversight from the United 
Nations. As a result of joining OGMP, Pioneer plans to establish a new methane intensity target in 2023, placing the company on the path of achieving the OGMP “Gold Standard” designation by 2025. We also joined the complementary Veritas initiative to accelerate actions that reduce methane leakage from upstream production facilities. In line with these efforts, Pioneer will advance our use of the best technology currently available to monitor and reduce methane emissions. Beginning in 2022, we increased our aerial methane detection campaign to three full-field surveys per year, and we are advancing plans to add fixed-site sensors at our larger facilities. Similar to our efforts with flaring, we are challenging ourselves and the industry to reduce methane leaks across the Permian Basin, along with providing greater transparency and third-party verification in our methane emission reporting.   Pioneer is also aggressively planning for the transition to electrified field operations, a path that is essential for reducing our carbon 
emissions. We have pilot tested electric-powered equipment in our drilling, completions and production operations; with this experience, we are now implementing these solutions as supply chain availability and power infrastructure allows. To ensure the success of this initiative, we are partnering with other Permian operators and the largest power distribution and transmission utility in Texas to expand the power delivery infrastructure within the Permian Basin. In addition, we 
are actively working with generators to develop renewable power 
to service our operations and reduce our Scope 2 emissions.  Consistent with our leadership in water resource management, we continue to drive down the use of freshwater resources within our 
operations and reduced freshwater use as a percent of total 
consumption in our completions operations to 41% in 2021. We are also challenging ourselves to meet a more ambitious freshwater reduction goal: We now intend to reduce our freshwater usage in completions operations to 20% or less by 2026, (a 5% reduction from the 25% target we announced last year,) while continuing our commitment to a rigorous industry leading definition of freshwater use.  Pioneer understands that we have an important role to play in the global challenge to mitigate climate change, and we take that role seriously. Pioneer’s Board and executive leadership team acknowledge the global threats posed by climate change due to increasing GHG emissions and the resulting impact on rising global temperatures. 
As we did last year, we will publish a Climate Risk Report in the 
fall outlining our work to prepare the company for the energy 
transition. The Climate Risk Report will conform to the 
recommendations set out by the Taskforce for Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). LETTER FROM THE CEO05Our ESG StrategyEmissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value“Pioneer understands that we have an important role to play in the global challenge to mitigate climate change, and we take that role seriously. ”LETTER FROM THE CEO06Water
ManagementOur ESG StrategyEmissions ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOGovernanceHSE CultureSocial ValueRobust corporate governance drives alignment with the long-term interests of Pioneer’s shareholders, strengthens our culture, drives accountability into the organization and, ultimately, improves the sustainability of our company. Our ESG vision and priorities are 
approved and overseen by our Board, managed by our executive team and implemented by employees across the organization. To help manage this process, the company established an ESG Task Force comprised of selected officers and subject matter experts. 
The Board established the Sustainability and Climate Oversight Committee (SCOC), which is comprised of the chairs of other Board committees and select Board members. Among other responsibilities, the SCOC assists the Board with overseeing the company’s strategy related to sustainability and climate change-related risks and 
opportunities and works with the other Board committees that also have climate oversight as part of their responsibilities. The SCOC also works with the executive management team to inform the Board on topics related to the energy transition.  We continue to make progress in advancing diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) within Pioneer, including the appointment of three 
new directors to our Board since our last publication who, collectively, bring deep expertise in DEI, ESG and the energy industry – Lori George Billingsley, Maria Jelescu Dreyfus and Jacinto Hernandez. Now, 46% of our Board and 46% of our executive management team are female and/or individuals from historically underrepresented 
communities. Additionally, in 2021, Pioneer elected to take part in 
the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index (HRC 
Index) survey and proudly received a score of 90 out of 100 in our first year of participation. The HRC Index annually rates workplaces on LGBTQ+ equality. Our high score is in recognition of the many policies and benefits we have implemented to promote the inclusion of members of the LGBTQ+ community in our workforce.   Pioneer and our employees continue to support the communities where we live and operate. On a global level, we continue to express formal support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As a multi-year participant in the UNGC, we have committed to align our strategy and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Locally, our 2021 donations to non-profits in West Texas and North Texas, the communities where we live and operate, aggregated to more than $9.5 million. We play a leading role in the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP), an organization focused on housing, education, healthcare, roads and workforce 
development in the Permian Basin. Since its inception three years ago, the PSP has leveraged $93 million in member funds into $950 million in collaborative investments from other stakeholders. Finally, as noted above, Pioneer and its employees have committed to 
donate over $20 million in humanitarian aid to the people of Ukraine.  Company culture is powerful at Pioneer, and it always has been. 
We were founded on a shared commitment to the responsible 
development of low-cost, low-emission oil and gas, and we believe that sustainability of the planet while supporting the free economies of the world is paramount to our future. We view ourselves as stewards of the resources – all the work we do today means future generations can enjoy it tomorrow. ESG is not new to us. Throughout our 25-year history we have simply strived to be the best. Pioneer remains 
committed to being an industry leader, and that includes leading when it comes to ESG performance.   It has been my honor to lead this company for our first 25 years, and I look forward to seeing the progress we make over the next 25 years. As the energy transition evolves, so do the commitments and strategies that will enable us to turn our goals into accomplishments. Taking 
Pioneer into the next quarter century requires forward-thinking at every turn – and Pioneer, with our talented and innovative employee 
base, is the company to lead the way. We are proud to share the 
highlights of our 2021 sustainability efforts, and we are dedicated
to making continued progress in the years to come.  
Thank you again for your interest in Pioneer and our ESG- and climate-related initiatives. Scott D. SheffieldChief Executive Officer.LETTER FROM THE CEO07Our Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipWater
ManagementEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueHSE CultureGovernance