Sustainable Development Programs Sustainability starts with solid governance and committed leadership. Our Pioneer Health, Safety and Environmental Committee sets the direction and vision for programs in our operating areas. Pioneer’s Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) professionals and operations partners lead our frontline efforts to: • Comply with laws, regulations     and policies, • Identify opportunities to enhance     operations, and • Seek continuous improvement in     HSE and sustainability performance. We are dedicated to protecting the health and safety of everyone who works at Pioneer facilities and minimizing our impact on the environment in our operating areas by SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS applying high standards, strict corporate policies, and responsible and ethical procedures. We believe all HSE incidents are preventable, and we train employees to prevent them. We investigate all HSE incidents to determine cause and implement appropriate corrective actions. The heart of the Pioneer HSE program lies with line management and field operations through participation in the development and implementation of HSEC initiatives. With support from Pioneer management, field office HSEC subcommittee representatives are responsible for evaluating HSE observations, reporting and discussing both safety and environmental concerns, reviewing accident investigations, assisting with field inspections, and developing and reviewing corporate standard operating procedures (SOPs). Total Recordable Incident Rate per 100 Workers Health and Safety Performance and HSE Training Pioneer understands the importance of continual HSE training when it comes to our goals to reduce HSE incidents and maintain a strong HSE culture. By continuing to focus on creating an incident- and injury-free workplace, our Exploration and Production employees have achieved a 36 percent decrease in total recordable incident rate (TRIR) since 2016. Our employee and contractor training programs cover incident prevention, protective equipment, SOP, and chemical material precaution and workplace hazards. We follow OSHA standards and regulations, provide new-hire and ongoing training for our employees and contractor site representatives, as well as contractor orientation training. In 2018, our Training team provided nearly 41,000 person-hours of HSE training to Pioneer employees and contractors. An additional 2,900 person-hours of SOP training was provided for operations and well services activities. We continued to develop and implement our Contractor HSE Program companywide, specifically focused on familiarizing contractors with Pioneer HSE expectations early in the contractor relationship. Pioneer conducts a thorough internal review evaluating contractor HSE performance before contractors are added to the Approved Contractor List (ACL). The review is supplemented using the ISNetworld platform. Contractors added to the ACL are subject to an ongoing Pioneer monitoring program that includes periodic onsite HSE reviews. The contractors that support our operations are integral to our success. Development of a Contractor Partnership Program has increased engagement and continuous improvement with our contractor workforce. Lost-Time Incident Rate per 100 Workers SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Motor Vehicle Incident Rate per 100 Workers 0.60 0.50 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.10  0.00  2016  2017  2018  Motor Vehicle Incident Rate  Motor Vehicle Safety Pioneer drivers logged more than 31,737,000 miles on the road in 2018. While just two percent of Texans live in the Permian Basin, 10 percent of the state’s serious motor vehicle accidents occur there, according to the Texas Department of Transportation (TXDOT), which has contributed to the increase in our vehicle incidents shown in the accompanying chart. Pioneer is committed to the safety of our drivers, and we are going to great lengths to make sure driver safety continues to be embedded in our culture and safety performance. Pioneer provides driving safety training to our employees and expects our employees to operate their vehicles in the safest possible manner. Pioneer emphasizes driver safety through an instituted defensive driving program and by requiring employees who drive on company business to successfully complete a curriculum that includes distracted driver training. As part SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM of this training, employees are educated on reporting procedures and the Pioneer policy to report all incidents, regardless of severity. Once drivers are on the road, Pioneer policy requires mandatory seatbelt use for all vehicle occupants and outfits all company vehicles with remote monitoring devices. These devices use a digital key to acknowledge driver identity and provide performance indicators of driver behavior, such as speeding, or aggressive cornering, braking or acceleration. Upgraded vehicles now provide audio feedback on these driving indicators to help with immediate behavior correction. Additionally, our HSEC Safe Driver subcommittee is responsible for monitoring performance and developing proactive measures to educate Pioneer drivers and prevent future incidents. The National Safety Council (NSC) and TXDOT have honored Pioneer with the Texas Employer Traffic Safety Award. Since 2014, the nonprofit Liquid Hydrocarbon Spills 4000 0.043000 2000 1000 0 2014 2015 Spills > 1 Barrel Volume of Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) NSC has recognized Texas employers who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment to traffic safety as part of the Our Driving Concern program, which is partly funded by TXDOT. As the NSC stated in its award notes, Pioneer is “a leader in the area of traffic safety and an example for Texas employers statewide.” Safety and Health performance metrics are provided within the Performance Data Table on pages 53-56. Environmental Release Prevention Pioneer designs, builds and operates our facilities and equipment with release prevention in mind. We invest in containment equipment, perform regular inspections and work to comply with release preparedness and response regulations. Our spill prevention and air quality staff, operations partners, and leadership committees are dedicated to studying past release findings and identifying operational or engineering safeguards that 0.03 0.02 0.01 0 2016 2017 2018 Volume Recovered from Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) Spill Rate (barrels per MBOE) could be used to prevent future incidents. When spills occur, Pioneer is required to report any releases. Once reported, we attempt to recover and properly dispose of the spilled volume as quickly as possible. In situations where the total spilled volume cannot be fully recovered, spill area remediations are performed at or above regulatory requirements. Additionally, our HSEC Spill Management subcommittee is responsible for monitoring performance and developing proactive measures to prevent future incidents. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Greenhouse Gases Emissions Intensity Methane Intensity 2.50 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.00 2016 2017 Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Climate change is an important priority for Pioneer and our stakeholders. As such, our strategy is to manage our environmental footprint proactively and limit emissions of methane and other greenhouse gases (GHG) from our operations. We are committed to working with the industry and communities to address our impacts to the environment while ensuring the supply of sustainable, abundant and affordable energy. In addition to Pioneer’s commitment to achieve compliance with federal and state requirements, Pioneer goes beyond compliance by developing proactive strategies to reduce emissions through research, industry partnerships, operational best practices, and strategic planning. Natural Gas Benefits for Reducing Overall Greenhouse Gas Emissions While Pioneer’s future growth strategy focuses mainly on low-cost oil production in the Midland Basin, we are also a sizable producer of associated natural gas. In 2018, Pioneer averaged 393 million cubic feet per day in natural gas production, making it one of the top 40 natural gas producers in the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 17 20.00 0.30 18.00 16.00 14.00 12.00 10.00 8.00 6.00 4.00 2.00 0.00 2018 2016 2017 U.S., according to data compiled by the Natural Gas Supply Association. A majority of our natural gas is transported by pipeline westward to markets in Arizona and California, a portion of which is used for generating electrical power. Pioneer natural gas is also shipped to points in Texas and Mexico for electrical power plant, residential or commercial use, and petrochemical manufacturing. Several studies have identified that natural gas-fueled power plants emit half as much GHG in comparison with coal-fired power plants. The annual inventory of U.S. GHG Emissions, compiled by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), shows that a reliable supply of natural gas has lowered the national emissions and carbon intensity of the electric power sector. Pioneer recognizes the benefits of using natural gas to displace coal can be impacted by fugitive methane emissions along the natural gas supply chain. Research studies conducted by the EPA, academia, non-governmental organizations, and the oil and gas industry estimate that pre-plant natural gas leakage rates vary widely, from roughly 1.0 percent-2.6 percent. Pioneer was an early adopter of comprehensive leak detection and repair (LDAR) in our operations, decreasing our 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0.00 2018 2016 emissions footprint and increasing salable product capture. Through various emissions management programs we are making a difference in reducing leakage rates in our operations as discussed in the following sections. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Intensities Pioneer emissions reporting follows EPA GHG Reporting Program requirements. The EPA GHG Reporting Program prescribes, for each emission source category, methodologies, engineering calculations and emission factors set forth in the applicable regulations to quantify GHG emissions, including methane. With the significant changes to industry reporting required by the EPA in 2016, we have selected 2016 as our emissions base year. In 2018, Pioneer changed the Methane Intensity unit of measure from tonnes CO2e per thousand barrels of oil equivalent (MBOE) to CH4 tonnes per MBOE, to align with common reporting practices. Methane Intensity is also provided in CH4 tonnes per million standard cubic feet (MMSCF) for benchmarking purposes. The implementation of GHG management strategies that consider methane, along with asset integrity and HSE practices, can be a strong indicator of Methane Intensity (tonnes per MBOE) Methane Leakage Rate (CH4 Tonnes per CH4 MMSCF) Methane Intensity (tonnes per MMSCF) 2017 2018 sound operational management. Pioneer provides the following disclosures on these topics so our stakeholders can understand how we manage the risks associated with these emissions. We are proud of our success in addressing these risks and have prepared the following details for stakeholder consideration and investor capital allocation decisions. As detailed in the reporting principles section, asset divestitures have contributed to emission reductions; however, proactive efforts to control emissions and improve operations, such as our efforts in LDAR, vapor recovery unit (VRU) utilization, and emissions research have also contributed to these reductions. Oil and gas from our current operations in the Permian Basin are now largely produced using modern infrastructure and facilities designed to provide better, more efficient, emissions controls. Pioneer is able to achieve success in our production goals, while improving performance in our environmental stewardship. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Emission Reduction and LDAR Milestones SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 19 20 and design considerations within EPA emissions using the latest science available. This study is datasets and models. As the oil and gas industry designed to better understand methane emission continues to improve its engineering, emissions profiles by evaluating how past studies can harmonize management, and emission reduction practices, with current industry practices. Gross gas production (MCF/day)new, more accurate data is needed to drive our decision-making process. We actively participate The Environmental Partnership In 2017, a voluntary industry initiative – Thein multi-stakeholder national and regional studies, American Petroleum Institute’s Environmentalwhich require collaboration among peer oil and Partnership (TEP) – was introduced to continuously 300gas operators, regulators, academia, industry improve the environmental performance of participatingtrade groups and environmental organizations. demonstrated that the oil and gas industry can 0in the design of safe-sampling protocols. The voluntarily implement best practices withoutparticipation of Pioneer and other oil and gas additional regulation, as well as provide theoperators contributes to the development of industry an opportunity to define and developmethods for safely measuring methane emissions Source: Rystad Energy research and analysis, Rystad Energy ShaleWellCube best practices to reduce emissions.directly at the source and facilitates scientific analysis where little empirical data previously existed. Pioneer has met all requirements applicable to our of that produced gas, which is in line with RystadEach TEP participant has agreed to implement voluntary programs to reduce emissions: operations. We have submitted our first annual energy research and analysis reporting on PermianWe continue our partnership with Colorado State report to API and the results have contributed to flare percentages, as shown in the above figure.University (CSU) to better understand emissions 1. Equipment LDAR using optical gas imaging the following emissions reductions. As part of our efforts to minimize flaring, we havefrom gathering and boosting equipment in our (OGI) cameras, or other instrument/technology partnered with third-party midstream operators operations. The findings will enhance the industry’s 2. Continuous/high-bleed pneumatic controller Facility Design and Emission to mitigate impacts from pipeline constraints byability to identify opportunities to incorporate replacement, removal or retrofit Reduction Practices securing firm transportation commitments. Thesetechnological solutions and operational best Pioneer has improved its emissions intensities by commitments are also designed to increase over3. Manual liquids unloading monitoring andpractices for emission mitigation practices. focusing on the following areas of our operations. time to accommodate our long-term expectedwellhead vent closure best practices In addition to our project with CSU, Pioneer is one production growth in the Permian Basin. of the founding members of the Collaboratory to FlaringSince 2016, Pioneer has reduced our emissions. Additionally, Pioneer is a leader in making significantAdvance Methane Science (CAMS). CAMS is a Pioneer strives to minimize the flaring of gas in all commitments to aid in physical Permian Basin oilconsortium of oil and gas operators, funding our operations. However, flares are necessary for and gas transportation capacity. Our supportscientific studies to address methane emissions, upset or emergency conditions and in situations of nearly a dozen new large-scale constructionfrom production to end use. The first research where capture is not possible. In addition to the projects will increase transportation capacities and project funded through CAMS was awarded to the safe diversion and combustion of gases, flares build new natural gas processing facilities. TheseUniversity of Texas at Austin to study spatial and combust volatile organic compounds and efforts provide safe transportation of oil and gas,temporal methane emissions profiles across various greenhouse gas emissions, including methane. while reducing flaring at our facilities. Pipelinesoil and gas basins and develop a publicly available Pioneer recognizes rapid oil and gas development provide the safest method of transportation bothtool to model emissions inventories from oil and gas has resulted in additional flaring of natural gas in in environmental risk reduction as well as removingproduction. The University of Texas at Austin project the Permian Basin. In 2018, Pioneer was the sixth tanker trucks from already-congested roadways. was developed in response to a need identified in a largest natural gas producer in the Permian basin recent report by the U.S. National Academies and was able to limit flaring to less than 2 percent SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM21 22 Vapor Recovery Although flares are required as part of our operations, Pioneer prefers capturing and routing our oil and gas products to pipelines wherever feasible. This practice is best represented by our strategy to install VRUs at horizontal well tank batteries and include them as part of the standard design in our Permian Basin operations. Pioneer controls emissions during oil well and gas well completions in our operations. This is accomplished by constructing necessary facility infrastructure and permanent production equipment ahead of associated well completions. Wherever possible, Pioneer captures and routes flowback emissions directly to production facilities and pipelines, rather than flaring. For horizontal tank batteries handling high production volumes, Pioneer installs multiple VRUs to manage the high gas volumes. These compressor units remove vapors and gases (including methane) from the storage vessels and route the gases into sales pipelines. Maintenance Process Vapor Capture To perform facility maintenance, gases within facility vessels, pipelines and tanks need to be depressurized or “blown down” (the venting of pressurized vessels to the atmosphere). Over the past several years, Pioneer has created new methods to capture and route these gases to sales pipelines or the inlet suction on other operating compression units. VRU Gases Captured 2018 2017 0.00 0.20 0.40 0.60 0.80 1.00 1.20 1.40 1.60 VRU Captured Gases (million tonnes CO2e) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 23 Capturing VRU gases creates a safer working environment, significantly reduces uncontrolled air emissions and can result in increased revenue. Gas-Driven Pneumatic Controllers Pioneer takes several approaches to reduce emissions from natural gas-driven pneumatic devices. Pneumatic devices powered by pressurized natural gas are a process control element in oil and gas facility engineering, and are components of compressors, separators, pressure vessels and piping. In 2018, Pioneer completed a two-year effort to replace or retrofit all existing high-bleed, gas-driven pneumatic controllers throughout our operations. Additional methane emission reductions have been achieved by converting pneumatic devices to operate on “instrument air” systems. An instrument air system replaces pressurized natural gas with compressed atmospheric air, eliminating methane and volatile organic carbon emissions, while providing additional safety benefits. Our Permian, South Texas, and Texas Panhandle teams converted onsite gas-driven pneumatic controllers to instrument air systems at more than 79 horizontal tank batteries, compressor stations, pipelines and midstream facilities. Utilizing Internet of Things for Operations Optimization Pioneer is currently evaluating and pilot testing an Internet of Things (IOT) approach to our operations to improve efficiencies and environmental performance. The capability to remotely execute smart proactive decisions to govern equipment performance and control has already provided encouraging early results. The use of analytics in many industries has already demonstrated beneficial increases in operational efficiency, long-term performance improvements, increased staff efficiencies and safety, reduced staff drive-time, and sustainability performance. Pioneer engineers are working to realize the benefit of these efficiencies in many Aerial Methane Monitoring Continuous Methane Monitoring midstream locations. OGI cameras utilize infrared sensors to locate emissions not identifiable through other inspection methods. Each Pioneer thermographer receives biennial OGI training, designed to teach the proper safety practices, methods to set up and operate the imaging cameras, how to identify what gases can be found with the technology, and the different environmental conditions that affect gas leak detection. RMLDs are laser-based methane detectors that can quickly and efficiently detect leaks up to 100 feet away. When the infrared laser beam is transmitted from the device, some of the laser light is reflected to an internal sensor, which can be used to determine a methane concentration. Leak detector training is provided to inspectors in accordance with manufacturer guidelines and regulatory requirements. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM aspects of our operations, including reduced maintenance emissions and decreased combustion emissions with improved engine performance. Methane Leak Detection and Repair We utilize various techniques such as audio, visual, and olfactory (AVO) inspections, OGI cameras, Remote Methane Leak Detectors™ (RMLDs), portable gas detectors, and aerial methane monitoring across Pioneer operations to monitor facilities for fugitive emissions. Our companywide LDAR program complies with EPA New Source Performance Standards OOOOa requirements which enacted an LDAR program for new or modified upstream facilities and compressor stations. Pioneer employs a team of thermographers who use OGI cameras and leak detectors to conduct surveys at our facilities, such as well sites, tank batteries, compressor stations, pipelines and Pioneer owns 12 OGI cameras and two RMLDs. In 2018, we performed more than 10,206 surveys using OGI, AVO, and aerial technologies at Pioneer wellheads, tank batteries and compressor stations. Of these surveys, 887 surveys were conducted as part of the OOOOa requirements. These surveys resulted in 940 found leaks, 939 prompt repairs, and a single leak requiring deferred repair. Permian and South Texas leak repairs were completed within 17.1 days and 1.6 days, respectively, on average. Facilities are currently prioritized for surveys based upon the potential for fugitive emissions to occur, but an annual survey frequency is established as the baseline. Facilities identified as having a higher potential for emissions (e.g., larger tank batteries and compressor stations) are surveyed on a semi-annual or quarterly frequency. In addition to our companywide LDAR program, Pioneer is testing two innovative approaches to monitoring methane emissions in its operations: 1) aerial methane monitoring, which provides field-wide survey capabilities; and 2) continuous methane monitoring, which detects leaks at the facility level. The technologies are designed to supplement the current LDAR efforts by detecting methane leaks and directing our team of thermographers and maintenance employees to efficiently locate and address leaks. Aerial Methane Monitoring In 2017, Pioneer initiated a pilot study to conduct aerial surveys to identify fugitive methane emissions on a field-wide basis. This method equips a fixed-wing aircraft with a passive spectrometer, optical camera and GPS. The onboard spectrometer images fugitive methane concentrations by measuring reflected sunlight for energy absorption at methane-specific SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM wavelengths. The methane data is then overlaid with simultaneously collected optical images to form a single, geo-referenced image of methane leaks. This methodology identifies areas of high probability for elevated methane sources and is best used for identifying bigger leaks that require prompt attention. Our 2017 pilot project covered more than 62 square miles and 170 Pioneer tank batteries in two days. The aerial methane surveys were conducted in coordination with simultaneous RMLD team inspections at select facilities. This allowed our researchers to compare and calibrate the aerial findings with traditional ground-based measurements. In 2018, Pioneer conducted a full-field methane leak survey of our Permian assets. This survey covered 1,267 square miles and imagery was collected at 9,218 total sites: 7,486 wells, 1,119 tank batteries, 636 well pads with associated tank batteries, and 312 other assets. The results showed elevated methane at 111 of the surveyed sites. All the identified leaks were promptly repaired. This method has not only proven to be extremely efficient in directing our methane LDAR program but is also estimated to have saved 2,529 employee work hours and 1,099 driving hours. This time saved allows our employees to spend less time finding leaks and more time preventing leaks. Continuous Methane Monitoring In 2018, Pioneer continued our program studying the field application of continuous methane monitoring, extending sensors to 10 Permian tank batteries. To detect methane leaks quickly, these sensors are installed strategically within the facilities and continuously monitor for leaks. In the event of a leak detection, system alerts are being designed to provide an immediate notification, so maintenance crews can promptly address the leak and minimize emissions. Pioneer is also working to use the system autonomously to identify equipment failures remotely. Pioneer plans to determine how this technology could be deployed on a larger scale across our operations. 2018 Restricted Carbon Scenario Analysis In addition to our efforts to limit emissions from our activities, we assess the potential impact of growing alternative energy sources and climate change policy on global fossil fuel demand and Pioneer long-term business prospects. A complete Restricted Carbon Scenario Analysis summary is provided within Pioneer’s online content library at www.pxd.com/sustainability. Highlights from that assessment are provided below. As part of Pioneer’s strategic planning process, management prepares and reviews with the Board of Directors long-term scenarios under varying assumptions to stress test the company’s business outlook. When evaluating possible future business scenarios, Pioneer considers several published energy forecasts and analyses by leading official agencies such as, but not limited to: • The U.S. Energy Information Administration’s    (EIA) International Energy Outlook • The Organization of Petroleum Exporting     Countries’ (OPEC) World Oil Outlook, and • The International Energy Agency’s (IEA)     World Energy Outlook Pioneer also engages private commodity market analysis firms to provide the company with industry and economic projections, which are utilized to test management’s assumptions of future business conditions. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Pioneer is in a particularly strong position to benefit from the Permian Basin’s quality assets as the largest Figure 2: Oil Breakevens by Company acreage holder with approximately 760,000 gross acres (680,000 net acres) under lease in the eastern part of the Permian Basin, also known as the Midland Basin. $50 To capitalize on this significant resource potential, more than 95 percent of Pioneer’s current and expected future capital expenditures are directed to the Midland Basin. The profitability of the Midland Basin is $40 particularly evident when compared with other onshore U.S. liquid-rich basins. As Figure 1 illustrates, the Midland Basin is among the best-in-class with an estimated oil price breakeven cost of approximately $30 $26 per barrel as of mid-2018. $20 The Pioneer Natural Resources Story As indicated in Figure 2, the $23/BBL breakeven cost attributed to Pioneer by Citi Research is well within the $10 borders of the Sustainable Development Scenario, indicating the company is in a strong position to produce oil and gas economically and help meet global demand for oil. This assessment is consistent with the June 2018 $0 updated “2 Degrees of Separation” analysis compiled by The Carbon Tracker Initiative, which examined the oil sector’s economic viability in a carbon-constrained regulatory environment. Their analysis found that Pioneer is among the least exposed oil producers to 2025 carbon-related capital expenditures (Carbon Tracker, 2018). Source: 2018 Oil & Gas Price Breakeven Analysis and Basin Benchmarking Update, Citi Research, published March 26, 2018The study also notes that companies like Pioneer, which have a relatively low percentage of potential future Breakevens reflect each respective company's production-weighted oil assets (at $3MMBTU gas price).capital directed to high cost projects, are more aligned with a 2-degree and 1.75-degree warming limit. Companies include: APC, CDEV, CHK, CLR, CPE, DVN, ECA, HES, MRO, NBL, NFX, OAS, PE, SRCI, WLL, WPX, XEG, XOG. This reinforces our belief that we are in a strong position to produce oil and gas economically in a carbon-constrained scenario. Figure 3 depicts the global demand for oil in 2040 for each of the 2017 World Energy Outlook’s three main scenarios and the likely oil sources that would satisfy that demand. This analysis assumes the relative volumeFigure 1: Oil Breakevens by Basin output of basins producing today and that the resources with the lowest available breakeven costs are likely to satisfy demand.$50 $40 Figure 3: Production Potential by Asset – Cumulative Global Breakeven & 2040 Oil Prices 2040 Production by Region - Cumulative Cost Curve $30 120 Crude Oil Production and Demand (MMBBL/D)$20 100 80 60 Russia $10 $0 Source: Citigroup research report published on 3/26/2018; assumes commodity prices of $50/BBL oil and $3.00/Million British Thermal Units (MMBTU) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM $64 IEA 2040 Oil Price Breakevens ($BBL) $111 $136 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Case Study: Going Beyond the Industry Standard Pioneer has invested millions of dollars installing and retrofitting its equipment with the latest and safest technology. Two recent improvements to our equipment in West Texas not only demonstrate Pioneer’s search to find efficiencies wherever possible but also reflects our priority of taking the environment into account and doing things differently: 1. Since 2016, we’ve been converting the operating pressure of   our old-style tank batteries from 6 ounces to 8 ounces. This   change allows for improved tank vapor recovery efforts and,   ultimately, less air pollution. Plans are also in the works to   double that design pressure to 16 ounces, further increasing   vapor recovery performance. 2. All of Pioneer’s tank batteries now operate with instrument   air instead of processed gas. Using instrument air eliminates   a potential emission source from pneumatic devices while also   providing additional safety benefits. Together, these changes perfectly illustrate the sixth principle of our Pioneer Stewardship365 initiative, Continual Improvement. Retrofits to Tank Batteries When our old-style tanks reached 6 ounces of pressure from flash gas build-up, it triggered the thief hatch, which opens and releases tank vapors into the atmosphere. To prevent this vapor release, we’ve installed vapor recovery units – known simply as VRUs – to collect any flash gas before it vents into the air. But there’s still one problem: Efficient VRU operation can be challenging, given the narrow pressure range it must operate under. An increase from 6 ounces to 8 ounces “doesn’t sound like a lot but results in a greater operating range by more than a third,” said Matt Scott, facilities engineering supervisor. “Essentially, it allows more time for the VRU to engage and collect vapors before the thief hatch opens,” Matt said. “And the higher inlet pressure you send [to the VRUs], the more volume each unit can move, too.” Pioneer’s decision to improve VRU performance “is purely environmental,” said Eric Felderhoff, facility engineering operations supervisor, noting that a lot of operators don’t have VRUs on their tanks. “There’s no operational benefit; it would be a lot easier to just emit,” said Eric. “This is truly an example of Pioneer reducing our environmental footprint, because it’s the right thing to do.” Instrument Air The constant bleed of pressurized gas from pneumatic controls is collectively one of the largest sources of methane emissions in our industry. Where we once used processed gas for these controls – a method that emits some vapors – every one of Pioneer’s tank batteries now operates with instrument air. In addition to reducing emissions, instrument air has far more benefits operationally, especially in the winter. “Gas containing water vapor, if it gets cold enough, will freeze,” Matt said. “This can cause a wide range of issues at the tank batteries, because they rely on pneumatic controls for operations.” Gas-powered pneumatic controls also pose an inherent safety risk because it’s a flammable substance. So, with the change, operational safety is significantly increased by using instrument air instead of gas, he said. In addition to stewardship, this also touches on our Safely8760 principle of Continual Improvement and being better, safer, every day. Environmentally Conscious Both of those changes improve our ability to operate, but they also represent conscious decisions Pioneer has made to invest in the equipment that goes “above and beyond” the industry standard, said Rupangi Faldu, director, Air Programs. “It’s a bonus when an operational improvement and an envi ronmental improvement come together,” she said. “Pioneer has spent time and resources ensuring that we take how we operate just as seriously as where we operate.” SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Water Protection Pioneer designs, builds and maintains its wells to protect groundwater quality and meet strict regulatory requirements. Through highly regulated casing and cement designs, safety and monitoring systems, and thousands of feet of rock between the hydrocarbon and fresh water zones, Pioneer actively minimizes the possibility for groundwater impact. State of Texas regulations require all wells be drilled using fresh water prior to reaching the base of protected groundwater, and be protected with additional casing and cement barriers. Ensuring the mechanical integrity of wellbore casings is another longstanding regulatory requirement for groundwater protection. In accordance with industry standards and best practices, we tested the surface casing integrity on the 297 wells drilled in 2018. Additionally, Pioneer performs additional mechanical integrity testing, as prescribed by the Texas Railroad Commission, throughout the well’s production life cycle. Future wells will continue to be tested in this manner. For more than 70 years, the industry has successfully drilled and produced wells using hydraulically fractured completions. As additional protection during the well completions process, Pioneer installs pressure gauges to monitor and test the annular space between the inner and outer well casing. In 2018, 100 percent of Pioneer’s completed wells were tested in this manner. Hydraulic Fracturing Chemical Use Pioneer has been an industry leader on chemical use disclosures. To help address questions about hydraulic fracturing, Pioneer joined industry peers and regulators to create the website FracFocus.org, a public registry of reported chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. The disclosure of chemicals used in wells using hydraulic fracturing completions is important. Pioneer supports this national initiative and complies with state regulations on reporting. As of December 31, 2018, Pioneer disclosed SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Water Source Water Intensity our water usage to that of other leading power sources. By this calculation, Pioneer used, on average, 3.39 gallons of water per MMBTU. Additional water use metrics are provided in the figure above and in our Sustainability Performance Data Table. Fresh Water Pioneer understands the importance of fresh water scarcity and strives to minimize fresh water use. Fresh water resources exist within lakes, rivers, wetlands and in groundwater reservoirs below the surface. Pioneer does not utilize surface water resources in our operations. Pioneer does utilize groundwater resources, and the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas for oil and gas operations shows that areas of high or extremely high overall groundwater risk are not present within our operational footprint. To mitigate water scarcity in our operations, we are: • Operating with a goal of maximizing non-fresh     water sources; • Continually working to minimize fresh water use; and • Increasing the use of recycled produced water     in hydraulic fracturing. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM addressing water-related risks and is improving water conservation by: • Ensuring a consistent, locally available and     economic water supply; • Offsetting fresh water sourcing with otherwise     unusable resources; • Utilizing municipal effluent water resources; • Optimizing water recycling and reuse in     economically viable ways; and • Efficient transportation and storage of water,     including reduced roadway traffic. As our industry drills longer lateral wells and increases the number of hydraulically fractured stages in each well, water use per well increases. Through these practices, however, more oil and gas is recovered from these wells, reducing overall “water intensity” – gallons of water per million British thermal units (MMBTU) of energy. The amount of water used for well completions varies by well length, completion design and geology of the formations targeted by each well. In 2018, Pioneer used, on average, 0.51 barrels of water per barrel of oil equivalent estimated to be ultimately recovered from wells drilled. Using a water intensity measurement helps compare on FracFocus.org the chemicals used in more than 4,162 wells drilled. While the FracFocus registry is a comprehensive disclosure of chemicals used in the completions process, some commercial products have unique properties that are protected as proprietary information under trade secret provisions under state laws in which the chemical is used. As an example of our responsible product sourcing, in 2018 the Pioneer Pumping Services LLC (PPS) chemical supplier pre-qualification process reviewed information for each chemical in use, including details deemed by the supplier to be proprietary information. In addition to this level of scrutiny in the selection of chemicals, PPS policy excluded diesel fuel as an additive in hydraulic fracturing fluids. Water Sourcing: Maximizing Non-freshwater Resources Pioneer Water Management LLC (PWM) is responsible for providing consistent, low-cost water sourcing, transportation and sales to internal and external customers. PWM strives to source in a sustainable manner by reducing the company’s use of fresh water, mitigating the disposal of produced water through water recycling efforts, further reducing water acquisition and transportation costs, and minimizing water trucking on public roadways. Pioneer takes a comprehensive approach to Non-Freshwater Municipal Water Reuse Pioneer contracted with the cities of Midland and Odessa to purchase significant volumes of effluent municipal water, also called reclaimed water. The mutually beneficial, public/private water-sourcing transactions are already saving millions of gallons of fresh water throughout the Permian Basin, providing significant upgrades to municipal water treatment facilities, and serving as an additional stream of municipal revenue. These projects provide Pioneer with millions of gallons of water for our operations, reducing the need to extract groundwater in a drought-prone area, decreasing water transport traffic and compensating the cities for water that would otherwise be discharged waste. We are proud to have found a solution that mutually benefits the communities in which we operate and also fulfills a critical operational need. Pioneer began sourcing water from the city of Odessa in 2016, when PWM completed the construction of a 20-mile pipeline from Odessa’s Water Reclamation Plant in Midland County to Pioneer supply facilities. By fully utilizing our Odessa supply alone, we have reduced our fresh water usage by 27 percent. Our project to make improvements to Midland’s wastewater treatment plant in return for a supply of reclaimed water broke ground in 2018. Under the agreement, upgrades to treatment processes will make the water suitable for use in our operations. Brackish Water Brackish water reservoirs that contain water too high in salinity for drinking or agricultural usage are another important water resource in the Permian Basin. The Santa Rosa Aquifer, a brackish water formation, lays thousands of feet above the Permian Basin’s oil shale plays. Geologists and engineers have evaluated the unique reservoir’s significant brackish water supply through geologic mapping, logging analysis, well optimizations and other subsurface SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM techniques. Using these tools, PWM can economically drill high-producing brackish water wells to support our operations across our acreage. In recent years, Pioneer has developed methods that allow high-salinity water sources to be used in hydraulic fracturing operations with fewer processing steps required. These innovations allow PWM to supply higher volumes of usable brackish water for our well completion operations, and further allow the expansion of economically reusing treated produced water. Produced Water As it occurs naturally within the same reservoirs, water is produced with oil, condensate and gas. Since the water is part of the liquid or gas hydrocarbons stream in the production cycle, it is considered “produced water.” Produced water is generally a mixture of water, naturally occurring dissolved solids, and a small amount of products used in the oil and gas production process. Like brackish water, produced water is a very high-salinity water source. Innovative hydraulic fracturing technology and water processing methods have allowed produced water to become a viable alternative water source. Historically, Pioneer has disposed of produced water through underground injection disposal, or using a third party. Today PWM is providing economically viable volumes of treated produced water to support our operations, which both reduces disposal requirements and provides another significant alternative to fresh water use. Produced Water Handling Pioneer storage ponds for non-fresh waters, including treated produced water (also referred to as “clean brine”), are designed to meet or exceed the requirements outlined by the Texas Railroad Commission for pit design, monitoring, backfill and reporting. Clean brine processing removes oil and other solids from produced water through specially designed water treatment facilities, so that oil or sheens will not normally be present. This process occurs prior to introduction into open storage ponds. Each PWM treated produced water/clean brine treatment facility storage pond is double-lined with automated leak-detection systems. Operating and maintenance procedures and the regular inspection of ponds help prevent abnormal or upset conditions. Additionally, PWM has developed a Wildlife Mitigation Plan that identifies the resources and wildlife that could be impacted by PWM operations and provides tiered solutions for wildlife impact mitigation. Additional detail on the Wildlife Mitigation Plan is provided within the Biodiversity Conservation section of this report on page 37. Avoiding Induced Seismicity The Central U.S. has seen an increase in earthquake activity, also known as seismicity, in several areas since 2010. Most notably, seismicity has occurred in Oklahoma and primarily two regions within Texas – the Fort Worth Basin near Dallas, and the Delaware Basin near Pecos. The South Texas Eagle Ford play area has also experienced limited seismicity. Pioneer operations are outside these areas of seismicity. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) Earthquake Hazards Program and the State of Texas TexNet Seismic Monitoring Program (TexNet) continually monitor seismicity across Texas. TexNet is composed of permanent and temporary earthquake sensing seismometer arrays across the state of Texas. TexNet is used to better understand statewide earthquakes and earthquake-related risks. This resource provides an independent and comprehensive tool to monitor Texas earthquakes. To date, no events in the historic USGS or TexNet earthquake catalogs have been located beneath our operations. Pioneer has taken a proactive and scientifically driven management approach toward monitoring, understanding, and potentially addressing any seismicity issue, should it arise. Over the past eight years, Pioneer has conducted internal monitoring of local seismicity through deployed monitoring sensors in multiple basins, and our scientists have regularly engaged with state regulators and industry groups to address seismicity concerns. Pioneer has also contributed to leading seismological research consortia at the Stanford Center for Induced and Triggered Seismicity (SCITS), the University of Texas Center for Induced Seismicity Research (CISR), the University of Calgary, and the University of Alberta Microseismic Industry Consortium. Pioneer continues to play a leadership role in understanding and managing induced seismicity risks, both in scientific analysis, and in our collaborative approach with regulators and researchers. Pioneer is committed to complying with applicable federal and state regulations regarding underground injection control. These requirements include injection rate and pressure monitoring, pressure testing, and mechanical integrity testing. Using the latest science and taking advantage of our extensive subsurface data set to improve our operational knowledge, Pioneer incorporates seismicity risk analysis in the siting of both our production and salt water disposal well locations. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM The Butterfly Effect Seeds help Pioneer employees provide essential habitat for monarch migration. Alan Smith, health and safety technical advisor, and his wife were on vacation in South Texas when their vehicle was unexpectedly engulfed – in butterflies. “It was during the monarch migration, and we had to pull over on the side of the road, because we couldn’t see,” said Alan. “Butterflies were covering our entire car, and it was just beautiful.” The monarch butterfly, easily recognizable by the species’ vibrant orange and black wings, is in trouble, due to habitat loss, pesticide use and climate change. Monarch numbers have decreased significantly during the last 20 years. As part of our commitment to Stewardship365, Pioneer held a seed packet giveaway, with each employee receiving a Pollinator Plant Pack called “Butterfly Retreat” that contains seeds of native Texan milkweed and other flowering plants. Planting these seeds gives the monarch and other pollinators the life-saving food source needed by larvae, caterpillars and adult insects. “Milkweed is essential to monarchs at all stages of their development,” says Henry Hill, staff environmental specialist. “Monarch larvae and caterpillars rely solely on milkweed to survive. Adult monarchs use milkweed as a food source too, along with nectar from other plants.” Both migration pathways of the monarch funnel through Texas, and the plantings from Pioneer’s Pollinator Plant Packs will provide essential habitat and nutrients to these beautiful creatures. “By conserving and connecting habitat for monarchs,” Henry says, “we also benefit other native plants and animals.” A Pioneer employee sent us photos of her flowers blooming! SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Our Approach to Biodiversity Conservation We recognize the importance of biodiversity conservation and endeavor to minimize our impact to these natural resources. Pioneer teams engage with Federal and State governmental organizations and regulators; partner with researchers, consultants and universities; and source and explore new technologies, all with the goal of applying innovative solutions to protect key habitats and species. Additionally, these engagements promote the development of conservation methods and strategies to mitigate environmental impacts and biodiversity risks in our operations. For years, we have taken stewardship lessons learned from our former operations in Alaska, Colorado, Canada and offshore, applying them to the Permian Basin. Pioneer has ambitious goals for the Permian Basin. In fact, with our recent decision to become a Permian pure-play company, we’re determined to responsibly operate in the basin for a long time to come. We are dedicated to using our broad experience to provide environmentally responsible solutions to help us achieve those goals. State of Texas Natural Resources Conservation In the State of Texas, the Comptroller of Public Accounts (CPA) takes a leadership role on certain endangered species issues and policy. As the steward of the Texas economy, the CPA is tasked to help find solutions to issues relating to identified endangered and threatened species that are sustainable ecologically, socially and economically. The CPA facilitates collaboration between state and federal government agencies, industry sectors, and nonprofits to help find solutions to the state’s endangered species issues. Pioneer engages in the CPA-directed public work groups to help in the development of up-to-date and accurate scientific and technical information. Additionally, the CPA has been instrumental in bringing together stakeholders, including Pioneer, to develop voluntary conservation measures that are effective and efficient. Reducing Our Footprint Pioneer continues to innovate multi-well pad drilling that reduces the overall area of surface disturbance and limits the number of associated roadways and easements, compared to those required to support single-pad drilling. This practice allows Pioneer to significantly reduce the area of impact by pad construction and limit what is known as habitat fragmentation. As Pioneer’s operations grow in the Permian Basin, our most sustainable well pad practices allow us to drill up to 24 wells in the same space we formerly drilled three wells. Pioneer is the first company to successfully bring this concept to life in the Permian Basin. Needing only 1/4 of an acre per well translates to, in some cases, more than 80 percent reduction in surface impacts. This approach allows us to maximize the resource potential beneath the surface, especially in places where surface space is limited. Through this strategy, Pioneer is efficiently developing our underground resources and significantly reducing our surface impacts, all while delivering the same product. Pioneer is actively planning today’s wells with tomorrow in mind. Conservation and Mitigation Actions The states of New Mexico, Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas are home to the lesser prairie chicken and its habitat. The Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, an association of 24 U.S. States and Canadian Provinces, formed a partnership of the five lesser prairie chicken states’ respective wildlife management agencies, and, together with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and partners from multiple industries, created a Range-wide Conservation Plan for the lesser prairie chicken. The Conservation Plan outlines the needs of the grouse species in the several habitats occurring within the five states and was endorsed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. As a result, several members of the oil and gas industry adopted the Conservation Plan and jumpstarted conservation efforts with over $65 million in initial conservation enrollments. Pioneer was a founding contributor to the Candidate Conservation Agreement with Assurances (CCAA) for the pre-listing conservation of the lesser prairie chicken. By working under the CCAA, we can proactively assess the siting of projects and select locations that minimize or completely avoid impact. In areas where we are not able to avoid habitat impact, the CCAA program allows Pioneer to generate habitat impact offsets. This allows Pioneer to maintain predictability in our development plans, while promoting lesser prairie chicken conservation. VIDEO: WESTERN ASSOCIATION OF FISH AND WILDLIFE AGENCIES Wildlife Mitigation Planning PWM currently uses several measures to protect wildlife, including siting decisions, preconstruction reconnaissance and wildlife impact avoidance measures. In 2018, PWM developed and implemented a Wildlife Mitigation Plan to outline additional mitigation efforts to support PWM’s overall mission to ensure continued environmental stewardship. Under the mitigation plan, obsaervations made in the field drive corrective measures, including the training to recognize wildlife issues and appropriately respond. Wildlife observations during inspections should be logged to monitor wildlife presence and changes over time. At a minimum, all workers and contractors should be trained in or informed of the following: • Identification of species of interest; • Who to contact when a wildlife issue is observed; • General Migratory Bird Treaty Act-prohibited actions; • PWM-established rules on speed limits and designated smoking areas; and • Prohibition of harassing/collecting any wildlife. In addition, environmental training of workers and contractors should include instruction to keep unnecessary lights to a minimum or eliminating lights in areas where they are not required or necessary. The Wildlife Mitigation Plan is designed to allow PWM to use an adaptive management approach make informed decisions regarding wildlife observations. 