MESSAGE FROM THE CEOÒScott D. Sheffield, Chief Executive OfficerOur mission is unchanged Ð 
to be AmericaÕs leading 
independent energy company, focused on value creation, safety, 
the environment, technology and our people. It is my pleasure to introduce PioneerÕs 2021 Sustainability Report. As I have stated in the past, we are committed to being a low-emission oil and gas producer with top-quartile environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance 
and an industry-leading balance sheet. This report will highlight our progress on ESG, as well as new and updated targets and goals. These targets and goals not only show how Pioneer can continue to evolve, improve and prosper through the energy transition; they also demonstrate our commitment to advancing our leadership position in environmental stewardship. 
Our mission is unchanged Ð to be AmericaÕs leading independent energy company, focused on value creation, safety, the environment, technology and our people. By remaining a low-cost, environmentally responsible producer, Pioneer is providing reliable and affordable, low-emission oil and gas to the world. 
ESG performance is critical to this mission. It is an important 
area of focus for the entire company, from our Board of Directors (Board) to our front-line employees. Through these efforts, we will remain a sustainable contributor to the worldÕs energy needs throughout the transition to a lower-carbon future. This report, combined with our 
inaugural Climate Risk Report that will be published later this year, will highlight the work we are doing to deliver on our ESG goals.  Pioneer remains dedicated to maintaining a strong balance sheet and significant financial flexibility. 
Our focus on financial discipline underpinned 
our strong performance through more than two 
decades of volatile commodity price cycles.
In the last year Ð during one of the most challenging 
periods in history Ð our financial strength allowed us 
to consolidate with two other high-quality Permian Basin operators and accelerate our return of capital 
to shareholders by implementing a quarterly variable dividend distribution plan prior to our expected timeline. Our top-tier assets, diverse team and culture of RESPECT Ð combined with our long-standing commitment to financial discipline Ð gives us great confidence in PioneerÕs ability to navigate the energy transition in the decades to come. As referenced in last yearÕs report, we committed to 
implementing the reporting standards outlined by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). This commitment goes beyond reporting and is changing how we evaluate risk and strategy at Pioneer. Later this fall, Pioneer will publish its inaugural Climate Risk Report, which will explain how we are 
applying TCFD guidance to incorporate the assessment of climate risks and opportunities into our overall risk management and strategic planning processes. We 
are on track to fully implement TCFD reporting 
protocols by the end of 2022 Ð one year sooner 
than the expected timeline.PioneerÕs Board of Directors and leadership team 
acknowledge the global threats posed by climate change from the continued increase of greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions and rising global temperatures. As part of our ongoing effort to enhance corporate governance, our Board of Directors has established a Sustainability and Climate Oversight Committee, which is charged with the ongoing oversight of our corporate climate-related risk analysis, as well as our Sustainability Report, Climate Risk Report and other 
related activities. We continue to proactively solicit feedback on our ESG strategy from major shareholders, environmental organizations and other stakeholders. 
We also advocate for a strong state and federal 
regulatory regime, including the federal regulation 
of methane emissions for the upstream oil and gas 
sector and Texas Railroad CommissionÕs work to 
limit flaring.In 2020, Pioneer established our initial long-term Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG and methane intensity goals. As you will see in this report, Pioneer exceeded expectations in meeting these goals in 2020, and we are now advancing our commitment to environmental metrics and targets as follows:    ¥ We are setting a trajectory to reduce our Scope 1 
     and Scope 2 GHG emissions to net zero by 2050, 
     with interim targets of reducing our GHG 
     emissions intensity by 50% and our methane             
    intensity by 75% by 2030 from our 2019 baseline.  
    To begin this process, we are working to electrify    
    our drilling, completions and field operations, limiting 
    our use of internal combustion engines. We continue    
    to employ and study aerial and in situ methane   
    detection technologies to improve our leak detection 
    and repair (LDAR) efforts. Over the next few years, 
    we expect to significantly advance the use of these 
    technologies in the field. We are currently evaluating   
    Scope 3 GHG emissions related to our oil and gas    
    production and recognize they are an important    
    consideration for many of our stakeholders.   ¥ We are maintaining our commitment to a flaring 
     intensity standard of less than 1% and, through      
     formal endorsement of the World Bank initiative,    
     to end routine flaring by 2030, with an aspiration   
     to achieve this goal by 2025. The assets of the 
     two companies we acquired in 2021 have been 
     incorporated into these goals a year earlier 
     than originally planned. To achieve these goals, 
     we (i) require our wells to be connected to natural  
     gas sales lines before bringing them on production,  
     (ii) install vapor recovery equipment at all our 
     horizontal tank batteries and (iii) maintain active 
     management over venting and flaring at all of our 
     production facilities.    ¥ We are establishing a new goal to reduce our 
     freshwater use in well completions to less than   
     25% by 2026. Earlier this year, we took our first            
     supply of reclaimed water from the city of Midland      
     via their new water treatment facility. In a unique 
     public/private partnership, Pioneer paid for and 
     constructed MidlandÕs secondary treatment plant      
     in return for long-term access to the cityÕs reclaimed 
     water. Combined with our contract to take reclaimed     
     water from the city of Odessa and our use of      
     treated produced water from our wells, we are 
     uniquely positioned to minimize freshwater use.  In the last year, we acquired two companies Ð Parsley Energy, Inc. (Parsley) and DoublePoint Energy 
(DoublePoint). These additions resulted in Pioneer becoming the largest oil and gas producer in the Permian Basin and the largest oil producer in Texas, combined with further enhancing the companyÕs top-tier inventory of future drilling locations.ÓMESSAGE FROM THE CEO03MESSAGE FROM THE CEO04ÒIn the heart of where we 
operate, Pioneer continues to 
be a leading member of the 
Permian Strategic Partnership, 
an organization working to address education, healthcare, workforce 
development, housing and roads 
in the Permian Basin. ÓWhile these added assets were accretive to shareholder value and augmented the economies of scale associated with our contiguous acreage position in the Permian Basin, they have not changed our foundational commitment to emissions reductions, freshwater-use efficiencies, land stewardship and other environmental goals. The data in this report reflects PioneerÕs 2020 performance on ESG matters. However, the forward-looking 
environmental commitments described above incorporate PioneerÕs combined assets, including both acquisitions. Work to bring these combined assets into alignment with PioneerÕs standards on emissions, spills, waste 
management and safe operations is well underway.In addition to the items described above, this report 
includes new information on diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) matters and our social and charitable contributions. As of the writing of this report, 47% 
of PioneerÕs executive leadership team is diverse. 
To further enhance the current diversity in our executive leadership team, we are targeting to increase the teamÕs diversity to greater than 50% over time. Every member of our executive leadership team is working 
to develop a three-year DE&I roadmap for their 
organization. To ensure we are inclusive to all employees, we are benchmarking our DE&I efforts across various frameworks, including the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equity Index to align with best practices for our LGBTQ+ employees. We remain committed to broadening our understanding and increasing our transparency and accountability in developing a 
diverse workforce. Our recently appointed Board member, Lori Billingsley, who brings deep expertise 
in DE&I and social stewardship, will be another 
great resource to help us advance our strategy 
and commitments in this area.  Pioneer has also expressed formal support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC).  As a participant in the UNGC, the worldÕs largest corporate sustainability initiative, we have 
committed to align our strategy and operations with 
universal principles on human rights, labor, 
environment and anti-corruption, and take actions
that advance societal goals, such as the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 

In the heart of where we operate, Pioneer continues to be a leading member of the Permian Strategic Partnership, an organization working to address education, healthcare, workforce development, housing and roads in the Permian Basin. The Permian Strategic Partnership is well on its way to meeting its five-year, $100 million commitment to improving the regionÕs human and physical infrastructure. We also have maintained our long-term support, both 
financially and through employee volunteerism and 
leadership, with Habitat for Humanity and Court-
Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) in Dallas and Midland, along with many other social organizations. These relationships are a few examples of our RESPECT values and a testament to the great work our employees do both in and out of the office.  
Finally, I would like to say how proud I am of the work 
our employees did to keep themselves and their colleagues 
safe, healthy and productive during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic created many 
challenges for businesses Ð as it did for families, 
communities and other organizations.  At the onset of the pandemic, Pioneer organized a cross-disciplinary group of leaders to manage our response to the virus. This group Ð following guidance from local, state and federal community leaders, 
medical professionals and our organizationÕs health 
and safety experts Ð successfully navigated a complicated and constantly evolving health crisis. As we have faced challenges throughout the pandemic, we have seen how resilient and dedicated we can be, thanks to the examples set by our employees and their families. Thank you again for your interest in Pioneer and our ESG and climate-related initiatives. Sincerely,
Scott D. SheffieldChief Executive OfficerLETTER FROM THE CHAIRMANMESSAGE FROM THE CEOiii05OUR COMPANYPioneer is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company 
headquartered in Dallas, Texas, with assets and operations exclusively located in the prolific Permian Basin of West Texas.
In January of 2021, Pioneer acquired Parsley in an 
all-stock transaction for a total consideration of 
approximately $10 billion. In May, Pioneer completed the acquisition of DoublePoint for a total consideration of approximately $6 billion. With the addition of the Parsley and DoublePoint assets, Pioneer is now the largest oil and gas producer in the Permian Basin 
and the largest oil producer in the State of Texas. 
As part of the acquisition evaluation process, the Pioneer
Management Committee and Board of Directors considered the historical emissions and flaring intensity performance of both Parsley and DoublePoint. This 
evaluation was important to understand potential impacts to PioneerÕs emission-intensity targets and industry-
leading flaring reduction commitments. 
As we integrate these new assets, we are applying our leading environmental practices of reducing emissions, limiting flaring, proactively managing the disposition of wastes and minimizing freshwater use. As part of this effort, Pioneer is retrofitting the Parsley 
and DoublePoint production facilities to conform to our leading emissions-management practices. This will allow Pioneer to incorporate these acquired assets into our environmental metrics and targets. OUR MISSIONPioneerÕs mission is to be AmericaÕs leading independent energy company, focused on value creation, safety, the 
environment, technology and our greatest asset, 
our people. The companyÕs long-term investment thesis is centered around the following strategic objectives:      ¥ Maintaining a strong balance sheet and
     financial flexibility   
   ¥ Returning free cash flow to shareholders via a stable 
      and growing base dividend and a variable dividend   ¥ Utilizing the companyÕs scale and technology 
      advancements to reduce costs and improve efficiency   
   ¥ Delivering economic production and reserve growth 
      through drilling, completion and production 
      improvement activities   ¥ Setting high expectations for employees and 
     contractors to perform their jobs in a safe manner   ¥ Maintaining industry-leading sustainable development 
      and environmental stewardship effortsOUR COMPANY06OUR COMPANY07ESG COMMITMENTEnvironmental, social and governance (ESG) matters remain critically important to 
our leadership, our people and our stakeholders, and therefore, the companyÕs future. 		   As the energy industry continues to evolve, we remain committed to environmental stewardship, 			   strong partnerships with the communities where we live and operate, and Board of Director-level 			   oversight of our ESG initiatives. We continue to reduce our emissions intensity, use of freshwater 
		   and physical footprint on the land. These important accomplishments are central to achieving our 			   goal of being a low-cost, low-emission producer of oil and gas.
		   We also recognize that we must attract, develop and retain a world-class workforce. 
		   At Pioneer, we strive to provide a workplace that embraces diversity, equity and inclusion 	
		   throughout the organization. We support our people to be their authentic selves and empower 
		   them to be entrepreneurs and innovators. We promote a culture that embraces differences, 	   	   honesty and teamwork. We call this RESPECT.		   Our Board of Directors and executive management team recognize that robust corporate ESG 
		   governance drives alignment with the long-term interests of our shareholders and strengthens our 
		   culture, provides accountability and, ultimately, improves the sustainability of our organization.

OUR LOW-COST, LOW-EMISSION OIL AND GAS 

Pioneer helps supply the world with low-cost, low-carbon-intensive energy. For 25 years, we have successfully 
managed the volatility of the energy markets through our asset quality, financial discipline and operational excellence. Our high-quality, low-breakeven Permian Basin assets are competitive with the most economic basins in the world. 
As shown in the chart below, Rystad Energy estimates Pioneer is not only among the lowest breakeven cost oil 
producers in the world, but also has a very low CO2 intensity per barrel of oil equivalent (low-emission).ESG COMMITMENT08These characteristics underpin PioneerÕs economic and environmental resiliency across a wide range of climate and energy demand scenarios. PioneerÕs inaugural Climate Risk Report, to be released later this fall, will describe our evaluation of various scenarios and their potential impacts to our business in accordance with TCFD guidelines. The grouping of producing regions in the bottom left of the graph on p. 8, which includes Pioneer for purposes of comparison, shows the most economic and environmentally resilient oil production in the world. Incidentally, the forecasted 2021 production of this grouping represents approximately 18 million barrels of oil per day, suggesting that this group (including Pioneer) should be viable under very low commodity price scenarios.KEY HIGHLIGHTS IN ESG PROGRESS Pioneer is committed to reducing our companywide Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. In 2020 we set aggressive emissions-reduction targets to reduce GHG emissions intensity 25% and methane emissions intensity
40% by 2030. Our progress against these goals has exceeded expectations. From 2019 to 2020, we have reduced our annual flaring intensity to 0.21% of natural gas production Ð 79% below our 1% target Ð and reduced our GHG intensity by 27% and methane intensity by 50%. Additionally, we have reduced hydrocarbon spill volumes by 32% and total recordable injuries by 23%. 


Our Net Zero Ambition Ð Only one year after 
we established our initial GHG- and methane-
intensity targets, in 2021 we increased our emissions reduction targets for GHG emissions intensity from 
a 25% reduction to 50% and for our methane emissions intensity from a 40% reduction to 75% from the combined assets of Pioneer, Parsley and DoublePoint (based on PioneerÕs 2019 baseline) by 2030. These new and 
ambitious targets put Pioneer on a path to achieve Scope 1 and Scope 2 net zero carbon emissions by 2050. These are not merely long-term targets without short-term plans and results: We are actively planning carbon-emission reductions through the electrification of our equipment and operations and the use of renewable 
energy throughout our operations. Our 10-year vision 
includes: maintaining an industry-leading flaring intensity, pursuing zero routine flaring in our production operations, electrifying compression at new facilities and converting existing compression equipment over time, powering drilling operations with electricity, testing technologies to lower our pressure-pumping equipment emissions, exploring opportunities to acquire or generate renewable electricity, along with evaluating and implementing other industry innovations.
Implementing TCFD Principles Ð We deliver long-term value to stakeholders through our top-tier assets and strong execution, including assessing and mitigating climate-related risks, engaging in new opportunities, 
and strategically adapting to new scenarios. In our 2020 
Sustainability Report, we detailed our approach to 
integrating climate-related risk management. 

GHG intensity in carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) includes CO2, CH4, and N2O emissions.LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMANESG COMMITMENTiii09As part of our continued commitment to following the TCFD principles that guide disclosure on these efforts, 
we plan to issue PioneerÕs inaugural Climate Risk Report
in the fourth quarter of 2021. Our Climate Risk Reportwill be our next step in fully implementing the TCFD principles into our business strategy, risk management, scenario planning, targets and metrics. Although the process typically takes up to three years, we expect to accomplish TCFD implementation by the end of 2022 Ð 
a year earlier than originally expected.Minimizing Flaring Ð We are limiting annual flaring 
to less than 1% of our natural gas production Ð serving as a leader in the Permian Basin Ð and have formally endorsed the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by 
2030 Initiative. In 2020, Pioneer flared only 0.21% of 
our natural gas produced.Setting a Freshwater Use Reduction Target Ð 
Pioneer recently completed a $134 million investment in the city of MidlandÕs wastewater treatment plant in return for long-term access to the cityÕs reclaimed water. This, combined with our contract to take reclaimed water from the city of Odessa and our reuse of produced water from our wells, supports our decision to set an industry-leading freshwater use reduction target. We expect to reduce freshwater consumption in our completions operations to less than 25% by 2026. Pioneer has excluded drilling operations from this freshwater target (approximately 5% of total freshwater usage), as industry requirements and best practices necessitate freshwater use when drilling through shallow zones to protect groundwater resources. Additionally, Pioneer defines freshwater more broadly than our peers to include water acceptable for 
agriculture. As a result, our freshwater use reduction targets encompass water used in agriculture and for 
other local consumption needs, and we provide full 
transparency in our reporting by disclosing all 
freshwater withdrawn and consumed in our operations.Promoting Representation in Our Diverse Workforce Ð To complement the diversity on our current leadership team, we are working to have more than 50% diversity representation within our executive leadership team. 
Each Management Committee member will also be responsible for annual DE&I goals within their areas 
of responsibility. The goals will help Pioneer continue 
to empower representation in all areas of the company. Additionally, we now provide transparent access to 
our EEO-1 data. 



Integrating ESG and Social Awareness Ð RESPECT has always been the foundation of our value system, 
and we have firmly established that commitment with 
our policies on human rights, DE&I and Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE). This year we are rolling out 
a comprehensive program to assess the ESG practices of our contractors, suppliers and service providers.  Additionally, we intend to provide employee training on human rights protections and how they relate to our business by the end of 2022. Pioneer will encourage our suppliers and service providers to help us advance these principles.Aligning with the UNGC Ð Pioneer has advanced our commitment to human rights, responsible labor practices, the environment and anti-corruption by endorsing the UNGC principles at the Participant engagement level.Improving Our Communities Ð In 2020, Pioneer and our employees contributed more than $4.6 million to hundreds of charitable organizations through strategic corporate partnerships, volunteer committees, employee-
driven matching and grants, and university giving.Advancing Our ESG Governance Ð We have advanced our ESG governance at Pioneer through our Board-
level Sustainability and Climate Oversight Committee, which now has a formalized charter focused on 
sustainability, climate oversight and related responsibilities, 
and an ESG Task Force comprised of leaders across the company. Pioneer and our shareholders have also welcomed three new Directors to our Board: A.R. (Ray) Alameddine, Lori George Billingsley and Matthew Gallagher..Climate Change Position 
Climate change is an important priority for 
Pioneer and our stakeholders. Our strategy is to manage our environmental footprint proactively and limit emissions of methane and other GHGs, while also limiting the use of freshwater in our operations. We are commited to working with the industry 
and all stakeholders to address our impacts to the environment while ensuring the sustainable supply of abundant, affordable energy. Our approach to climate change is consistent with our RESPECT values. ESG COMMITMENT10 PATH TO NET ZERO BY 2050Updated interim targets to support our ambition to reach net zero emissions by 2050Significant progresstowards targets27%reductionfrom 2019 
baselineReduce GHG emissions intensity50% by 2030(Scope 1 and Scope 2)20202030 Target201950%reductionfrom 2019 
baselineReduce methane emissions intensity75% by 20302030 Target2020201979%lowerthan 1% limitLimit annual flaring intensity toless than 1%2019202050%reductionfrom 2015 
baselineReduce freshwater in completions to25% by 2026201520202026 TargetESG COMMITMENT11ESG PROGRESSINAUGURALYEARDecreased 
Total Recordable 
Injuries by
Reduced 
Hydrocarbon Spill Volumes by23%32%TCFD-Aligned 
Climate Risk Report Q4 2021Completed the Midland 
water treatment plantsecuring long-term reclaimed water Zero Routine Flaring 
by 2030 endorsementTargeting to 
increase diverse 
representation 
in executive 
leadership positions 
to >50%Contributed >$4.1 million
to charitable organizationsFull endorsement of 
the UNGC principlesWelcomed three directors 
to our BoardCDP Climate ChangeSurvey SubmissionESG performance 
assessments for supply chain and service providersESG COMMITMENT