WORKFORCE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITYWORKFORCE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITYPioneer is committed to sending our workforce home safely every day. Our dedication to protecting employees’ health and safety working in and around company facilities and operating areas is supported by enforcing standards, corporate policies, and responsible and 
ethical procedures. In 2020, Pioneer enhanced HSE training through a targeted program that assigns employee training by a pre-defined exposure ranking. Our HSE training program covers both compliance and cultural HSE topics, ranging from incident 
management to confined space to behavior observations. The training curriculum follows OSHA standards and includes both new-hire orientation and ongoing training for our employees. In 2020, more than 10,800 hours were dedicated to HSE training.
Health and Safety performance metrics are provided within the 2020 Sustainability Performance Data 
Table. While Pioneer has many Health and Safety programs that we continuously enhance, in 2020 
there were four programs in which Pioneer made 
significant advancements:Serious Exposure HSE Event ManagementIn 2020, Pioneer introduced our Serious Exposure program across all operations. While appropriate management of all HSE events matters, the Serious Exposure method prioritizes the highest-risk events, bringing increased visibility and proactive, consistent solutions to these more urgent situations. Our stance and independent research support the principle that reducing severe incidents requires a different strategy than reducing minor incidents. Our Serious Exposure program is similar to the Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) programs of other companies; however, Pioneer also applies the same principles and methodology to environmental incidents. .Serious Exposure HSE 
Event Management Motor Vehicle Safety Contractor Safety WORKFORCE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY58SERIOUS EXPOSURE METHODOLOGYLeadership Review: Serious Exposure/Severe 
Outcomes – Our executive leadership continues to drive this initiative forward to demonstrate management’s 
commitment to Safely8760 and Stewardship365 
principles. Monthly review meetings with executive and field leadership share lessons learned across 
the organization, identify actionable preventative measures, develop a stronger culture around serious exposure awareness and prevention, drive accountability throughout the organization, and improve corrective action efficacy.Motor Vehicle SafetyPioneer strives to provide our drivers the best possible tools through education and training, sound practices, and skill building. Pioneer works to address the critical mental component of driving with our S.A.F.E.R. driver training program. It provides a cognitive approach to training by utilizing classroom techniques, a driving safety assessment and a risk-assessment drive.
In 2020, Pioneer implemented the next generation of our In-vehicle Monitoring System (IVMS). Our system has evolved far beyond the basic ability to locate trucks on a map. Today, we use this technology to 
improve driver safety, optimize maintenance, monitor vehicle health, automate mileage reporting and record fuel use. 
The National Safety Council (NSC) and the Texas 
Department of Transportation have, for the third year 
in a row, honored Pioneer with the Texas Employer 
Traffic Safety Award. As the NSC stated in its award notes, Pioneer is “a leader in the area of traffic safety and an example for Texas employers statewide.” In 2020, we have worked with the NSC Our Driving 
Concern program to share best practices externally through a series of webinars.
Motor Vehicle Incident RatePioneer expects all motor vehicle incidents to be reported, regardless of severity. Pioneer defines a motor vehicle incident (MVI) as any incident involving a company owned/operated motor vehicle, in gear and under physical control of the driver. Reportable MVIs that count toward the overall rate are incidents where a Pioneer employee or third-party sustains an injury that requires medical treatment beyond first aid and/or 
where a company or third-party vehicle cannot be safely driven from the scene. In 2020, Pioneer had an MVI rate of 0.33 incidents per million miles driven.Contractor SafetyContinuing to build contractor partnerships has resulted in a 23% year-over-year (2019 to 2020) reduction in contractor health and safety recordable incidents on Pioneer locations. Pioneer has realized those results through continuous improvement of the six contractor program elements: pre-qualification, selection, onboarding, evaluation, monitoring and decommissioning. These elements lead to a collaborative approach with contractors throughout their relationship with Pioneer.HEALTHIndustrial HygienePioneer understands the importance of worker health and established an Industrial Hygiene program with the goal of eliminating or reducing risks when a 
hazardous condition arises. The Industrial Hygiene program works in conjunction with the HSE Risk 
Registry process. Security Personnel and ProgramsSecurity is a material risk for many oil and gas companies. 
Pioneer takes a preemptive and robust security approach for those risks that are present within our operations. Pioneer participates in the Energy Security Council, which provides leading-edge security forces training. We are also an active member of the Permian Basin Oil Field Crime Committee. This committee promotes collaboration among its 186 members, which include Permian Basin oil and gas company security departments and law enforcement agencies. Additionally, our security professionals maintain strong working relationships with national and state prosecutors, local officials, and police chiefs and officers. These relationships support our communities and are invaluable in conducting our business ethically, safely and collaborating and 
assist one another in preventing and prosecuting oilfield thefts.Pioneer employs an internal Security department to manage security for our staff, proprietary information and operations, including: