Chapter 4Emissions ManagementClimate stewardship is important to Pioneer and our stakeholders. Pioneer acknowledges the global threats posed by climate change due to increasing GHG emissions and the resulting impact on global temperatures. As such, our strategy is to manage our environmental footprint proactively and limit emissions of methane and other GHGs from our operations.  Pioneer also limits emissions of non-GHGs from its operations, 
including volatile organic compounds (VOC), nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and other pollutants. These emissions are subject to Texas air permitting programs that are intended to protect regional air quality near oil and gas operations. We utilize best practices and take a holistic approach to reducing emissions. Our emissions practices not only aim ensure regulatory compliance, 
but deliver emission benefits well beyond that required by federal 
and state regulation.  Best Practices  Emissions Reductions Pioneer set targets to reduce our GHG emissions intensity by 50% and our methane emissions intensity by 75% by 2030 (from our 2019 baseline), the achievement of which would align with Pioneer’s ambition to achieve net zero emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 2050.  These targets are based upon operationalized plans through 2030, and we will continue to follow best practices in our pursuit of GHG and methane emissions intensity reductions. We recognize that the environment in which we operate is dynamic and, as a result, we will continue to review and revise our emissions reductions plan on an ongoing basis. We are proactive in communicating and planning with third parties, especially where externalities, such as materials availability, equipment supply, technology development, and gas-gathering and power infrastructure buildout can affect our progress.  Pioneer’s overall strategy to manage GHG emissions is comprised 
of the following actions:   • Reduce methane emissions through facility design, operation 
     and leak management   • Eliminate routine flaring and limit flaring to circumstances related 
     to emergency or upset conditions   • Minimize emissions through electrification of field operations   • Secure purchase power agreements (PPAs) for renewable energy 
     and associated renewable energy certificates (RECs)  
Vapor recovery unit control panel.EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT21Emissions ManagementOur Reporting ApproachLandscapeStewardshipWater
ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		This strategy underpins our vision for both reducing existing emissions as well as curtailing growth of potential future emissions over the next 9 years. As depicted in the chart below, the impact of these cumulative actions will not only significantly decrease our baseline emissions forecasted for 2030 but also drive our trajectory towards net zero emissions in 2050. 

Pioneer’s objective is to first manage emissions from our own 
operations. We do not intend to rely on carbon offsets to meet our emissions targets in the near-term. However, Pioneer is investigating carbon-reduction technologies and nature-based solutions that may play a role in helping us neutralize residual Scope 1 emissions and realize our net zero ambition in the longer term. In addition, Pioneer anticipates relying on field-supported RECs to help mitigate our Scope 2 emissions. To achieve our emissions targets, we are in the process of developing 
proactive strategies centered around operational best practices, technological innovation, applied research and industry partnership. 
Through collaboration, we leverage the varied skillsets of our teams to create innovative approaches to mitigate emissions and emission-
related risks. We reinforce this alignment through incentive 
compensation policies established by the Board. Reducing GHG 
and non-GHG emissions, while increasing the capture of salable product, are key considerations in how Pioneer (i) drills and completes our wells, (ii) designs, builds and operates our facilities, and (iii) manages our relationship with third-party gatherers, processors and transporters who ultimately process and transport our oil and natural gas production.  

Electrification Our ability to achieve our net zero ambition is centered on being able to electrify our drilling, completions and production operations, and ultimately, use renewable energy to power these activities. Challenges exist for all operators in the Permian Basin as it pertains to electric transmission which may limit our ability to fully electrify our operations..
Pioneer is actively partnering with our local utility provider to develop a long-term power delivery strategy that is essential to the success of field electrification. In addition, we have taken the following notable steps to begin implementing these progressive solutions:    • Drilled a pad using a rig powered by 100% electricity from      high-line power   • Pilot tested a hybrid rig using battery storage for peak 
     load shaving   • Replaced diesel light plants with solar light plants in a trial   • Continued planning for full conversion of drilling operations 
     to high-line power as infrastructure allows   • Tested dual fuel (compressed natural gas/diesel) frac pumps    • Trialed an electric frac fleet powered by a cleaner, gas-burning 
     turbine   • Leveraged high-line power to support auxiliary equipment for
     stimulation and post-stimulation activities on one trial pad   • Continued planning for opportunities to use high-line power 
     for completions operations as infrastructure allows   • Installing electric compression for gas lift as unit availability 
     and power infrastructure allowsEMISSIONS MANAGEMENT22Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		Renewable Power Given the combination of Pioneer’s plan to pursue electrification of our 
operations and our large ownership position of surface acreage in the 
Permian Basin, we are well-suited to support the development of wind 
and solar power generation projects. We have begun to form partnerships 
to participate in the development of renewable energy projects on our 
acreage as well as participate in directly purchasing renewably generated power for our operations. These projects not only support our efforts to minimize our carbon footprint, but also have potential to provide clean, sustainably generated power to the electrical grid in Texas. We expect these projects to offset a portion of our Scope 2 emissions. We also plan 
to participate in other renewable energy projects in the future to further 
offset our Scope 2 emissions. Drilling and Completions  Reducing Diesel Fuel Combustion – Our drilling and completion operations continue to become more efficient, and we are driving significant reductions in GHG and non-GHG emissions. By drilling and completing wells with fewer drilling rigs and pressure-pumping fleets, we produce fewer emissions per year for the same number of wells placed on production.  
Deployment of standard equipment packages help to maximize our drilling time and lower static time. Since 2019, our drilling team reduced the average number of days to drill a well by 27%. From a 2017 baseline, we have reduced diesel fuel consumption in drilling operations, lowering each well’s emissions footprint by more than 25%.  
Our completions team has reduced pressure-pumping engine idle times 
by 78% since 2017 (an 18% reduction since 2020), further decreasing our 
diesel fuel consumption. Presently, we are on pace to continue this trend 
of improvement in 2022. Although completions emissions per well remained stable in 2021, the average completed lateral feet per well increased by 4%, resulting in an emissions decrease per lateral foot. By completing longer wells, while at the same time preventing a growth in emissions, we continue to improve our environmental performance. In addition, our completions team reduced the number of days to complete a well by 12% in 2021 and 
increased our completions productivity – average foot per day – by over 30%.  EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT23Water
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		Reducing Venting and Flaring – We have also focused on reducing flaring in our completions operations. Since 2018, the duration of circulating time (the phase of completions operations during which the well has the most potential to flare gas) has been shortened by more than 71%. Additional management practices include:   • Controlling emissions during oil and gas well completions by constructing 
     necessary infrastructure and permanent production equipment ahead of 
     associated well completions   • Capturing and routing flowback emissions directly to production facilities 
     and pipelines rather than flaring, wherever possible Driving Technology Advancement – Pioneer is an industry leader in advancing drilling and completion techniques and operational efficiencies. We invest annually 
in drilling and completions technology enhancements and participate in 
industry consortia. We have also implemented various digital field equipment enhancements to improve employee safety, lower capital and operating costs, refine field data capture and lessen Pioneer’s overall climate footprint. Facility Construction and Operations  Minimizing Flaring – Pioneer minimizes the flaring of gas in all our operations and continues to lead by example, having set an annual flaring intensity target of less than 1% of produced natural gas and a commitment to zero routine flaring by 2025. We are confident in achieving these goals, having performed cross-departmental analyses, pilot testing and a thorough analysis of the root causes of conditions that can lead to flaring in our operations. We also continue to refine quantification of flared gas by incorporating direct measurement of both low-and high-pressure volumes with thermal mass meters.  Pioneer requires wells to be connected to gas takeaway infrastructure before they are placed on production. We partner with third-party gathering, processing and pipeline operators to secure firm capacity and abate impacts from flow constraints. Together, we review production forecasts, system pressure models and project schedules, sharing responsibility to meet production demands and ensure emissions control..To further enhance our takeaway flexibility, Pioneer is working with our gas gatherers to interconnect gathering systems to provide incremental gas processing redundancy should parties have downtime. 

Pioneer also enters long-term commitments for firm transportation 
of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids to markets outside the 
Permian Basin, including the U.S. Gulf Coast, Mexico, West Coast and international markets to mitigate the risk of oversupply in the Permian Basin. However, at times, flaring becomes necessary to deal with upset or emergency conditions. Pioneer senior management 
is actively engaged in decision-making with the goal of keeping flaring to a minimum, adhering to our flaring intensity commitments. Pioneer uses dual-tip flares sized for high-pressure production flow in an emergency and low-pressure facility emission controls. The flares are designed to meet full production capacity and combustion efficiency requirements for emergency events. Pioneer remotely monitors flaring through our supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system, which triggers alerts for deviations in normal operating conditions. The system then directs a technician to quickly respond. Key Pioneer operations personnel receive a daily log of the issues and the selected response procedures. Pioneer conducts monthly inspections and performs preventative maintenance to ensure the proper operation of flaring systems.Pioneer’s gas gathering and processing agreements contain performance incentives and penalties, including requirements to maintain adequate system pressures to minimize emission events and contractual 
obligations to connect to new facilities prior to a well being placed 
on production..Performance incentives include exclusive rights to gather and process production from high volume areas as well as 
advanced notice of new producing areas to allow adequate time to build necessary infrastructure..Penalties include the release of production to third parties if a gatherer cannot maintain adequate pressure rates to take all production at a battery or financial penalties if pressures exceed pre-determined levels for a set period of time. EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT24Water
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		Since 2019, when Pioneer CEO Scott Sheffield called on producers to remedy what he dubbed the 
“black eye” of the Permian Basin and reduce flaring to 2% or less 
of total natural gas production, Pioneer has collaborated with 
peers to minimize flaring. Participating in initiatives with various 
organizations such as the American Petroleum Institute’s (API) 
The Environmental Partnership (TEP) and the Texas Oil & Gas 
Association’s (TXOGA) Texas Methane and Flaring Coalition, 
Pioneer and other producers are sharing best practices and 
discussing performance targets. Flaring intensity in the Permian 
Basin (among all operators) continues to improve with a 70% 
reduction from 2019 levels, down from 3.7% in 2020 to 1.3% in 
2021, according to Rystad Energy. Pioneer is committed to 
working with other operators, regulators, academic institutions 
and non-governmental organizations to manage flaring and 
emissions in the Permian Basin. EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT25Water
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		Prioritizing Vapor Recovery – Pioneer prioritizes gas capture over venting and 
flaring and installs vapor recovery units (VRUs) with ample capacity at horizontal 
well tank batteries. These tank batteries handled more than 97% of our oil and 
gas production in 2021, making VRUs an important means of managing facility 
emissions. Pioneer VRUs captured 2.92 million tonnes of methane emissions (in CO2e), approximately three times the total amount of Pioneer’s methane emissions in 2021. This practice, along with constructing adequate gas take-away infrastructure prior to producing wells and continuing our industry-leading Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) activities, enhances Pioneer’s ability to capture and sell a maximum volume of gas, while reducing our emissions footprint. Designing and Operating Top-tier Facilities – Pioneer incorporates emissions 
reduction as a criterion in its facility design. Pioneer also strives for excellence 
in how we operate and maintain our production facilities. The following tables highlight some of the initiatives that have driven our reductions in flaring,venting and emissions.  

Demonstration of improved thief hatch design (left) vs old (right) to mitigate air emissions.EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT26Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		Reducing Pneumatic Controller Emissions – Pioneer reduced emissions by 
converting gas-driven pneumatic controllers to “instrument air” systems. Pneumatic controllers traditionally use pressurized natural gas to actuate facility equipment, 
then intermittently or slowly emit the working gas resulting in methane and non-GHG emissions. An instrument air system replaces natural gas with compressed atmospheric air, eliminating those emissions while providing additional safety 
benefits. Instrument air pneumatic controllers are included in our standard design 
for horizontal tank batteries. We are expanding the use of instrument air pneumatics 
to well pads, and we are also converting existing controllers at recently acquired 
facilities to instrument air. Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) – We use various techniques such as audio, visual and olfactory (AVO) inspections, optical gas imaging (OGI) cameras, portable gas detectors, and aerial methane detection across Pioneer operations to monitor 
facilities for fugitive emissions. Our LDAR program complies with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) New Source Performance Standards OOOOa (OOOOa) and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) Standard Permit requirements for upstream facilities and compressor stations.  Pioneer employs a team of thermographers with OGI cameras to survey our facilities, including well pads, tank batteries, compressor stations and associated gathering pipelines. Infrared sensors in OGI cameras enable quick detection and visualization of emissions. Each Pioneer thermographer receives biennial OGI training to review proper safety protocols, calibration and operation of the camera, gas identification techniques and limiting environmental conditions. In addition to our regulatory LDAR program, Pioneer voluntarily performs leak detection at all facilities through aerial surveys. While our voluntary LDAR program emphasizes detection of methane, emissions of other non-GHGs such as VOCs and hydrogen sulfide (H2S) are also mitigated when leaks are found and repaired. Pioneer currently surveys all facilities at least annually and some more frequently as required by regulation. In 2021, Pioneer performed more than 12,800 site surveys using OGI and aerial technologies at Pioneer well pads, tank batteries and 
compressor stations. These surveys found 1,892 leaks that were promptly repaired 
consistent with regulatory requirements by Pioneer or communicated to divestedasset purchaser for repair. EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT27Water
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		Monitoring, Reporting and Verification  Recent advancements in methane sensor technology and related data analytics are beginning to provide a clearer picture of our methane emission rates, volumes and durations. Continued development and application of this technology will help Pioneer, and the oil and gas industry, to better understand individualized fugitive emissions beyond the current regulatory methodology that is based on equipment counts and generic emissions factors. By refining our quantification of methane emissions, we can increase the accuracy and transparency of our emissions reporting and develop customized emissions reduction 
solutions. Pioneer has invested time and effort into research and development with the goal to help not only ourselves, but also other operators, successfully tackle the methane challenge. We continue to invest in sensor research and development in an effort to improve our ability to detect methane emission and remediate any leaks sooner.   EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT28Water
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		Technology Deployment Aerial Methane Monitoring – Aerial methane monitoring is an integral part of Pioneer’s methane reduction strategy. Beginning in 2018, Pioneer conducted an annual full-field methane survey of our operations. Based on the learnings and success of our past surveys, Pioneer has expanded our aerial campaign to three full-field surveys per year beginning in 2022. To conduct aerial surveys, a fixed-wing aircraft is equipped with onboard methane sensors, optical cameras and a global positioning system (GPS). Methane concentration data is overlaid with simultaneously collected optical images to form a single, geo-referenced image of methane leaks. This information is then used to direct on-ground thermography inspections. This more efficient process allows our teams to spend less time finding and fixing leaks and more focus on prevention. Pioneer is consistently building on our experience with aerial methane detection. While our initial aerial technology deployment identified high-probability methane 
sources, we benefited from improved technology in 2021 that had
the ability to identify smaller sources of methane, which allowed us 
to gain a deeper understanding of our methane emissions. 
Fixed-site Monitoring – In 2020, Pioneer began evaluating several continuous monitoring technologies at our large, complex horizontal facilities. As every oil and gas site is unique, pilot trials can help 
identify the technologies and implementation plans appropriate 
for each location. With the benefit of experience gained both 
independently and collaboratively, we are planning to scale up 
deployment at these sites in 2023.  To help inform our efforts, Pioneer also collaborated in Project Falcon with Scientific Aviation, developer of Systematic Observation Of Facility Intermittent Emissions.(SOOFIE) sensors, along with six other oil and gas operators: Chevron, ConocoPhillips, Devon Energy, ExxonMobil, Shell and TRP Energy. Project Falcon commenced in 2021 to test and optimize implementation of real-time methane monitoring at the facility level. The objective of the project was to study the reliability of the continuous monitors and develop best practices for deployment (e.g., placement and density) and 
management (e.g., alarming and notification processes). The 
project is now complete and pending a peer reviewed publication. Regional Monitoring – Pioneer is also participating in Project Astra, 
a groundbreaking partnership to design and test a first-of-its-kind network of sensors that will monitor emissions across a region that produces oil and gas, which could potentially streamline the way methane leaks are found. Led by researchers at The University 
of Texas at Austin (UT), Project Astra is a collaboration between 
Environmental Defense Fund, ExxonMobil, Gas Technology 
Institute and Pioneer.  It is focused on the Permian Basin – and specifically on the Midland Basin. Project Astra will establish a sensor network that will leverage methane-sensing advances, technologies, data sharing and data analytics to provide near-continuous monitoring. Goals for the sensor network are to allow producers to find and fix methane releases more often and more cost-efficiently than current monitoring technologies. Pioneer will participate in the technical design of the various aspects of the study. In addition, we will provide access to production facilities and relevant operational data.. The project study team has made progress, completing an 
intercomparison of methane sensors and a simulation of emissions 
in the atmosphere using a digital twin. The next step, a small-scale pilot, will use these elements to test sensor network design and 
performance in the field beginning in the fall of 2022. All findings 
and reports of the project are published in peer-reviewed journals 
and made publicly available. The study’s findings could help guide how companies, states and the national government measure, 
monitor and manage methane emissions in the future.  For more information about Project Astra visit: dept.ceer.utexas.edu/ceer/astra/ and projectastra.energy/“Participating in Project Astra offers significant opportunities to advance technology in detecting and reducing methane emissions and help our industry address this critical issue.”– Mark Berg, Executive Vice President, Corporate OperationsPioneer is testing multiple methane emissions monitoring systems at its oil and gas facilities.EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT29Water
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		Emissions Measurement and Reporting Oil and Gas Methane Partnership (OGMP) 2.0 – In 2022, Pioneer joined the OGMP 2.0, a multi-stakeholder initiative launched by United Nations Environment Programme. Currently, OGMP 2.0 has 77 international operators as members and is continuing to grow. To accelerate methane emission reductions, measurement-informed emissions inventories and transparent reporting are critical. By joining OGMP 2.0, Pioneer plans to inform its emissions reporting utilizing representative scientific studies and field measurements. Participating companies are expected to achieve the “gold standard” for emissions reporting in three years for operated assets and five years for non-operated assets. Gold standard is defined by achieving Level 4/Level 5 as described below:  Progression through reporting levels requires increasing granularity, methodological rigor and reduced uncertainty in reported figures. The United Nations Environment Programme has established the International Methane Emissions Observatory to aggregate and maintain global estimates of methane emissions and will also incorporate data reported by companies to OGMP 2.0. For more information about the OGMP 2.0 initiative visit: ogmpartnership.comLevel 1Emissions reported for a venture at an asset or country level Level 2Emissions reported in consolidated, simplified source categories Level 3Emissions reported by detailed source type and using generic emissions factors Level 4Emissions reported by detailed source type and using specific emissions factors and activity factors Level 5Emissions reported similarly to Level 4, but with the addition of site-level measurements  EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT30Water
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		Veritas – In 2022, Pioneer also joined the Gas Technology Institute-led Veritas, an initiative to advance differentiated 
gas measurement and verification. The collaborative effort 
of scientists, academics, environmental organizations, 
certification organizations and industry participants will help develop accurate and verified methane emissions intensities and the necessary protocols to calculate measurement-
informed methane emissions for natural gas systems, including:   • The Methane Intensity Protocol will define methane 
     intensities for each segment of the natural gas supply chain   • The Measurement Protocol will describe how to take 
     measurements to inform emission inventories, by segment   • The Reconciliation Protocol will reconcile emissions 
     factor inventory with actual measurements, by segment   • The Supply Chain Summation Protocol will sum up 
     multiple segments for a supply chain methane 
     emissions intensity   • The Audit and Assurance Protocol, which will provide 
     guidance for verifying an emissions inventory and for 
     third-party auditing For more information about the Veritas initiative visit: gti.energy/veritas-a-gti-differentiated-gas-
measurement-and-verification-initiative.  Low Upstream Emission Gas Demonstration – In 2021, 
Pioneer joined Cheniere Energy in a collaborative effort 
to test the efficacy of robust Quantification, Monitoring, Reporting and Verification (QMRV) of GHG emissions 
at natural gas production sites. The effort will enhance our 
overall understanding of upstream GHG emissions and 
further deployment of advanced monitoring technologies 
and protocols. Pioneer enrolled a small subset of well pad
 and tank battery facilities in the QMRV test.  The project is supported by independent researchers from the Payne Institute for Public Policy at the Colorado School of Mines and Harrisburg University of Science and Technology for assessment, verification and emissions-monitoring 
technology providers. We believe this type of shared action, using science based QMRV and continued efficacy 
assessments, will support the longevity of gas and liquified natural gas (LNG) fuels worldwide and provide readiness for potential new regulatory and voluntary actions on GHG emissions. Granular review of measurement, monitoring 
and activity data is helping both the QMRV study team 
and Pioneer gain additional insights from the project. Collaboratory to Advance Methane Science (CAMS) – 
Pioneer is a founding member of CAMS, a consortium of 
oil and gas operators funding scientific studies to address methane emissions from production to end use. CAMS 
has funded several thoughtful projects to understand and mitigate methane emissions, with an objective to share the results openly to benefit the industry.  For information about CAMS research, including the Permian Basin Survey and Methane Emission Estimate Tool, and other studies visit: methanecollaboratory.com.Advocacy and Stakeholder Collaboration  As an onshore operator on private lands in Texas, Pioneer’s operational footprint decreases the company’s exposure to national and international political and regulatory risks. 
Nevertheless, we remain committed to leading amongst our peers in climate and environmental stewardship issues. We mitigate our climate-related risks by setting aggressive emission-intensity reduction targets, industry-leading flaring commitments and the emission-reduction actions described in this chapter. We actively assess climate-related pledges made by U.S. national and state candidates for office and the increasingly growing number of formal climate-related policy proposals from both parties at the state and national levels. We partner with trade associations, think tanks, academia and other stakeholders who share our values to engage in the public-policy dialogue regarding climate change. Pioneer continually evaluates our trade association affiliations to ensure their respective public policy positions are consistent with the company’s commitments.Methane Emissions Regulation Pioneer has been outspoken on the company’s support of effective 
and efficient industrywide methane regulation, as reflected in 
Pioneer’s comments opposing the Methane Policy Rule, dated November 25, 2019, that proposed removing methane as a regulated pollutant from the EPA’s OOOOa rules, and has been a leader amongst independent oil and gas exploration and production 
companies in advocating our position.  More recently, in February of this year, Pioneer joined the Environmental 
Defense Fund in recommending that the Biden Administration 
take action to reverse the Trump Administration’s actions removing methane from the EPA’s OOOOa rules. Currently, Pioneer is engaging with the EPA, industry peers, as well as academic and non-government organizations on the Biden Administration’s proposed methane regulation to foster thoughtful, creative solutions to lower emissions. Sensible methane regulation that balances the benefits 
of domestic natural gas production with environmental protection 
is necessary to elevate natural gas as a clean energy solution, thereby 
strategically positioning this valuable resource for growth and 
viability in the future. The optimum result would be reasonable 
regulations that provide certainty, incentivize early action, drive performance improvements, support operational flexibility, facilitate proper enforcement, and encourage technological innovation, 
particularly in the rapidly evolving area of methane leak detection, now and in the future. The Environmental Partnership As a founding signatory of The Environmental Partnership (TEP), Pioneer has reported its progress annually to American Petroleum Institute (API) since 2018. Pioneer and a group of more than 90 other participants in the upstream and midstream sectors continue to demonstrate how the oil and gas industry can voluntarily define and implement emissions-related best practices without additional regulation. Each participant has agreed to participate in programs to manage emissions from leaks, pneumatic controllers, liquids unloading, compressors, pipeline blowdowns and flares, as applicable to their operations. For more information on how our actions are contributing to these industry goals, please visit: theenvironmentalpartnership.org/annual-reports/2021-annual-report/.API The Environmental Partnership Mission and PrinciplesMetrics & Targets  Our Net Zero Pathway  In 2021, Pioneer announced our ambition of net zero emissions by 2050. Our focus is managing GHG emissions from our own operations. 
Reducing our Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect from the 
purchase of energy) emissions is fundamental to decreasing our company’s climate-related risk, meeting stakeholder expectations and contributing to the global decline of GHG emissions. We are currently evaluating Scope 3 GHG emissions related to our oil and gas production and recognize that they are an important consideration for many of our stakeholders. Additionally, if we acquire assets, we will work diligently to have those operations meet Pioneer’s performance standards expeditiously.Interim Emissions-intensity Targets To support our net zero ambition and drive incremental progress, 
we have established targets to:    • Reduce our GHG emissions intensity 50% by 2030    • Reduce our methane emissions intensity 75% by 2030  These targets represent emission reductions from our operated assets from a full-year 2019 emissions baseline. Quantifying and reporting our emissions on an intensity basis is the best way to demonstrate progress and accountability in the near term given the dynamic nature of upstream oil and gas assets. Pioneer will report our performance progress against these targets annually, consistent with our reporting principles. GHG emissions intensity performance will be based on Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions divided by gross oil and gas production in terms of tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)divided thousand barrels of oil equivalent (MBOE). Methane emissions intensity performance will be based on methane emissions in terms of CO2e divided by gross oil and gas production (tonnes CO2e/MBOE).CAMS ProjectsEMISSIONS MANAGEMENT31Water
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachEmissions ManagementLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategySocial ValueHSE CultureGovernance		EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT32Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyHSE CultureGovernanceSocial Value		Pioneer’s emissions in 2021 were impacted by the resumption of activity post-2020 and the acquisition of new assets with higher emissions intensities. We have worked diligently to bring the acquired assets in line with our operational standards, which are consistent with our emissions reduction targets. Pioneer expended considerable capital to upgrade the acquired facilities such as adding vapor recovery units, replacing pneumatic controllers and other modifications. 
Inclusive of these acquired assets, in 2021 we report:  • 22% reduction in GHG emissions intensity from 
     our 2019 baseline
  • 50% reduction in methane emissions intensity from 
     our 2019 baselineFlaring Reduction Targets Pioneer also established two targets specific to 
production flaring:   • Limit our annual flaring intensity to less than 1% of 
     our natural gas produced (while striving to bring the 
     acquired assets from Parsley and DoublePoint to 
    this level by year-end 2022)
  
  • Zero routine flaring by 2025, five years earlier than our     
    original 2021 commitment of zero routine flaring by 2030 

Flaring intensity performance will be based on natural 
gas volumes flared during production operations divided by gross natural gas production in terms of thousand standard cubic feet (Mscf). Pioneer formally endorsed the Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 Initiative. We established processes to identify, quantify and manage routine and non-routine flaring. We will report our routine and non-routine flaring volumes consistent with the initiative starting in 2023 (for the 2022 operating year).  Year over year, Pioneer has maintained low levels of flaring, even while integrating two newly acquired assets into Pioneer’s ongoing operations. In 2021, our annual flaring intensity was 0.41%, which is 59% lower than our 1% 
threshold commitment and 68% lower than the Permian Basin average of 1.3% reported by Rystad Energy.  Methodologies and Definitions Detailed information on our emission inventory 
methodologies, as well as definitions of Scope 1, 
Scope 2 and other air emissions, are provided 
within the “Methodologies & Definitions” on pxd.com/sustainability.  *Includes flaring from production operations (basis for annual flaring intensity target), completions operations, and more than 144 thousand metric tonnes of Parsley Energy/ DoublePoint Energy pre-aquisition operations and flaring related to assets divested in 2021.EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT33Emissions ManagementWater
ManagementLandscapeStewardshipOur Reporting ApproachLetter from the CEOOur ESG StrategyGovernanceHSE CultureSocial Value