ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUEHUMAN RIGHTSIn 2020, we formally adopted a 
companywide Human Rights Policy 
and Human Rights Commitment that reflects how we have historically chosen to operate domestically and worldwide. Our Human Rights Policy has been informed by the following United Nations and International Labour 
Organizations standards promoting social progress, better living standards, respect for indigenous peoples and human rights for all individuals:  • Universal Declaration of Human Rights  • United Nations Guiding Principles on Business 
     and Human Rights  • International Labour Organization Declaration 
     on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  • United Nations Declaration on the Rights of 
     Indigenous Peoples  • International Labour Organization Convention 169


Our chief compliance officer, in conjunction with 
our Management Committee, is responsible for the management and adherence to these policies and commitments with oversight from our Board. The policy describes our respect of both people and lands, as well as how we source the supplies we use for our business. Pioneer strives to source products from 
suppliers meeting our standards of responsibility. 
We expect our suppliers to respect their workers and communities and avoid conducting business in ways that harm people.Pioneer is a force for good 
in our local communities. 
Consistent with our RESPECT 
values, we are focused on people, 
including employees, contractors 
and our communities.ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE61Since adopting our Human Rights policy in 2020, we have worked diligently to develop tools and programs to begin monitoring the effectiveness of the policy. We have developed comprehensive training on Human Rights protections and issues and how they relate 
to our business. We will initially provide this training 
to Pioneer Supply Chain Management employees 
and are working to integrate it into our training 
management system.
To view our Human Rights Policy, Human Rights 
Commitment, Equality is Good Business statement, the For Equality Act and related information, go to PXD.com > Culture > Values.
United Nations Global Compact ParticipantIn 2021, Pioneer has advanced our commitment to Human Rights by endorsing the UNGC principles 
at the Participant engagement level. As we continue 
to improve and learn how to improve our Human Rights and Community Engagement strategies, 
the Participant level provides us with many more 
opportunities to build trust and transparency, achieve our sustainability objectives and shape our sustainability pathway. We look forward to informing our stakeholders about what we learn from our participation. 
SUPPLY CHAIN AND SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENTLocal Permian Basin Suppliers – Pioneer values its relationship with a diverse set of local Permian Basin contractors and suppliers. In 2020, at least 28% of 
our capital spend was attributed to suppliers based 
in the area. Additionally, more than 78% of our 
spending is attributed to suppliers headquartered 
in Texas or whose goods are manufactured in-state. 
As a company, we recognize the importance of supporting the local community by using suppliers that are critical to providing employment in the region.
In 2020, a work group dedicated to ESG and sustainability was established within our Supply Chain Management department. The work group sets ESG goals annually and is tasked with maturing supply chain processes for assessing and managing our supplier relationships from an ESG/sustainability perspective. We work to ingrain these processes into all facets of the supply chain. This includes supplier scoring, request-for-quote/contract language inclusion, internal guidance and goal setting, among other initiatives.Supplier ExpectationsWe strive to work with companies that share our high standards and values. As outlined in our Code of 
Business Conduct, business integrity, safety and environmental stewardship are some of our main priorities. Pioneer’s standard Master Service and Sales Agreement contractually obligates our suppliers and contractors to comply with our Code of Business Conduct, including our Human Rights Policy and Commitment. Supply Chain Management utilizes our procure-to-pay process to encourage sustainable practices within our supplier community. We promote collaboration and continuous improvement from our business partners and work upfront with suppliers to set expectations and ensure accountability. Our Supply Chain Management team is working to better understand
our relationships with Historically Underutilized Businesses (minority-, women- and veteran-owned businesses) as a part of our overall ESG and diversity efforts as a company.ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE62Pioneer assesses every supplier through an extensive prequalification process based on the specific work type. This process includes important supplier safety and 
environmental information as well as HSE documentation. All contractors performing services on a Pioneer location must first sign our Pioneer Master Service and Sales Agreement, which binds them to our Code of Business Conduct. Safety and environmental stewardship are 
integral to our relationship with our contractors. Our Pioneer programs and goals are communicated to our contractors starting with their initial set up as a Pioneer service provider and reinforced through ongoing 
performance management conversations.
Pioneer standard sourcing and contract templates include service provider obligations to participate in contractor safety meetings, provide root cause analysis and perform thorough HSE reporting. Contractually, suppliers and service providers may be required to participate in our Supplier Performance Management program. Key performance indicators (KPIs) such as safety, cost, performance metrics and ESG initiatives are tracked and reviewed. Examples of KPIs include run-time, non-productive time and quarter-over-quarter comparison of metrics, among others. Pioneer and our suppliers and service providers conduct collaborative evaluations of holistic performance (including safety and sustainability) periodically. Pioneer conducts 
supplier audits at least once every three years to 
verify compliance with our policies and expectations. Performance improvement plans will be instituted for any suppliers or service providers not meeting our expectations.
Supplier Collaboration to Drive SustainabilityPioneer Supply Chain Management works with suppliers 
to find new ways to reduce environmental impact and risk while creating more sustainable operations. In 
many cases, we have achieved these goals through automation, improved technology, and focus on the overall economics and engineering of a given project. 
In addition, our Supply Chain Management department is integrating an ESG component into our standard contract award process. Our supply chain decision 
matrix scorecard template includes ESG grading as 
a component to a bidder’s overall score. 
Pioneer’s Supply Chain Management team is currently 
onboarding approved contractors using the widely 
accepted EcoVadis online ESG and Sustainability rating and assessment platform. A questionnaire, which must be conducted yearly, is given to each contractor by 
the rating agency, and a score is provided based on 
the responses. The questionnaires are tailored to 
each contractor’s specific industry, size and location. Contractors must upload supporting documentation that verifies their responses. The supplier and contractor scores provided by the rating agency are utilized by our Supply Chain Management team to score contractors when awarding work, and to work with our contractors 
to improve their ESG and Sustainability programs. 
This tool enables collaboration between Pioneer and our contractors to improve sustainability together by continuously creating year-over-year improvement.
For additional Supply Chain information, visit 
PXD.com > Operations and Innovation > Suppliers.DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION Our DE&I program cultivates an environment where people feel included, respected and valued, which has never been more relevant than it is today. An inclusive workplace enables us to embrace diverse backgrounds and perspectives to attract, retain and develop the best talent. Through grassroots interest, leadership support, and robust training and development programs, our employees are embracing differences and actively learning how to better leverage different schools of thought to achieve business results. We are excited about the momentum we have gained and are ready 
to continue learning.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion TargetsTo demonstrate Pioneer’s commitment to DE&I 
initiatives and empower representation in all areas 
of the company, we have:  • Set a goal to have more than 50% diversity 
    representation within our executive leadership 
    team. Currently our executive leadership is 
    47% diverse.  • Require each Management Committee member 
     to identify annual DE&I goals within their area of 
     responsibility.
Equal Opportunity EmploymentOur Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy provides equal employment opportunity for all qualified employees and applicants without regard to race, color, sexual orientation, gender or gender identity, religion, national origin, disability, veteran status, age, marital status, pregnancy, genetic information, or other legally protected status. This obligation applies to all employment practices including, but not limited to:  • Recruiting, hiring, promotion, transfer, demotion,  
     layoff, termination and training  • Treatment during employment  • Rates of pay or other compensation and benefits  
  • Selection for training, including apprenticeship 
     and on-the-job training, as applicable  • Social and recreational activities or programs
Pioneer does not and will not discriminate against any qualified employee or applicant based on any of the aforementioned factors.Pioneer included sexual orientation and gender identity in our antiharassment and discrimination labor practices ahead of the 2020 U.S. Supreme Court ruling, which upheld those protections within the Civil Rights Act of 1964. We have also joined the Business Coalition for the Equality Act, which law, if passed, would extend these national protections to other areas such as fair housing and credit. The Coalition is a group of leading U.S. employers that support the Equality Act, national
 legislation that would provide the same basic protections to those who identify as LGBTQ+ as are provided to other protected groups under federal law.Diversity and Inclusion Training – Pioneer continued our DE&I training program developed in conjunction with a third-party provider called Appreciating Differences™. With 100% of leaders and 75% of individual contributors trained, we will continue to offer the training as a core tool in our diversity strategy. As our program continues to evolve, we have now added a required Unconscious Bias training for all employees.  
PIONEER DEMOGRAPHICS
In 2020, women represented 25% of our workforce, including 33% at the senior executive level. The overall proportion of minority employees has decreased by 5% since 2019. However, we continue to achieve 
steady growth within both senior executive and mid-level management minority representation and our executive leadership is currently 47% diverse. 
Pioneer actively leverages our Campus Recruiting 
program to diversify our pipeline of incoming 
talent. The Pioneer Management Committee 
regularly reviews the demographics of our employees with a view to seeing that diversity is advanced at all levels of the company. Pioneer is committed to 
transparency around diversity and inclusion. As part of that, we offer full view of our progress in our 2021 Sustainability Performance Data Tables.ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE63ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE64ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE65ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE66INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLEPioneer is committed to providing a workplace where individuals bring their authentic selves and are supported in an environment that nurtures all aspects of their lives, leading them to perform their best. Our success is driven by our people.
Employee EngagementAt Pioneer, we believe in transparency, and it starts at the top. Giving employees a voice is paramount to creating a thriving and resilient culture. Our annual engagement survey provides a view into our overall 
organizational health. Pioneer recently partnered with a service provider to provide us with global, multi-
industry benchmarks. Despite the many challenges Pioneer and our employees faced in 2020, Pioneer scored in the top quartile, in terms of engagement, globally. The results are used to identify areas in which our employees would like to see improvement. We are working to develop action plans with our managers 
to improve in these areas throughout the company.
Employee Resource Groups – Our companywide DE&I program, OnePioneer, is led and self-governed by a diverse representation of our employees. Once split into individual resource groups, it became evident that our members cared for communities different from their own, and we recognized that true change can be accomplished when we band together. As a 
result, we joined the groups to create OnePioneer. They operate as a singular team to advance DE&I initiatives throughout the company.
Under the OnePioneer umbrella, we continue to provide a space for employees to come together, with a shared interest or identity, as we have for 12 years. OnePioneer proudly supports these networks:  • Different Abilities Network  • Women’s Network  • Early Career Employees  • Military Network  • Multicultural Network  • Parent and Caregivers Network  • PRIDE+ NetworkEmployee Recognition – Pioneer’s WELL Done 
employee appreciation program is driven by both peer-to-peer and manager recognition. WELL Done allows Pioneer employees to recognize and reward 
their colleagues for outstanding work, especially in relation to our RESPECT values. 
Compensation and BenefitsPioneer annually reviews salaries for all employees to provide a living wage, adjust for market conditions, 
and attract and retain a highly skilled workforce.
Pay for PerformanceEach Pioneer employee can influence their take-home pay through their performance. Our employees 
participate in:  • Cash incentive plans that consider both individual 
     and company performance  • Traditional bonus plans heavily influenced by 
     individual performance   • Variable compensation plans denominated in 
     company stock
BEST-IN-CLASS BENEFITS PEER- AND 
INDUSTRY-COMPETITIVE OFFERINGSOur employees are our greatest asset, and we encourage them to take full advantage of the great benefits and programs we offer. To ensure we attract and retain top talent, we set ourselves apart from other employers by carefully selecting an outstanding benefits package.  • Comprehensive medical, dental and vision plans  • Company-provided life insurance, short-term      disability and long-term disability• Paid maternity and paternity leave	• 12 weeks of 100% pay for primary caregiver	• Two weeks of 100% pay for secondary 
	   caregiver  • Flexible work schedule and compressed work week  • Generous paid-time-off program, including paid  
     sick leave  • 401(k) employer match
Pioneer continually reviews and implements benefits to attract and retain a highly skilled workforce. Two recent changes in 2021 include adopting a Remote Work program and adding Juneteenth as a paid company holiday.ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE67OnePioneer’s mission is to champion our culture of RESPECT and community stewardship by fostering an inclusive and productive environment that visibly supports and actively empowers all employees to thrive through education, recruitment, advocacy, wellness, development, mentorship, networking and philanthropy. More than 30 percent of our employees are members of OnePioneer.  OnePioneer Principles We listen, show up and speak up as allies for people 
and communities that are different from our own. We advocate for an accessible and inclusive workplace that supports 
employees with permanent and temporary disabilities.  We embolden our employees to bring their whole selves to work 
regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression.  We support veterans, active service members and their families.  We appreciate and celebrate individuals from all cultural 
backgrounds and foster a culture of inclusion through promoting a 
constructive understanding of our differences and potential biases.  We connect employees through mentorship, networking 
and shared learning to adapt and succeed at every stage 
of their careers in a rapidly changing workplace.  We promote equality through the development, retention and 
advancement of women and people of color at Pioneer. ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE68Careful Restructuring – Like many companies before us, Pioneer recently faced the difficult task of reducing and restructuring our workforce. In 2019, we realigned our staff to fit our Permian pure-play business model; in 2020, we reduced our workforce again to reflect the reduction in the company’s long-term growth rate following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and the simultaneous slump in oil prices. While we very much consider this 
a last resort and work hard to avoid these scenarios, 
we took great care in providing our employees with post-
employment benefits as they pursued their next opportunity. We provided generous severance benefits, additional funds for insurance coverage and full vesting of Pioneer stock awards.A CULTURE OF HEALTH AND WELLNESSDaycare Centers – Employees in our Las Colinas and Midland Corporate Offices have the convenience of an onsite childcare center that offers early childhood programs for their children ranging from infants to kindergarten prep.
Health Centers – Pioneer has three on-site health clinics that provide healthcare for both employees and their families. Medical services provided include preventative screenings, sick visits, routine check-ups, chronic 
condition management and urgent care needs.
Employee Cafeterias – Employees enjoy a range of healthy eating options at five of our office locations equipped with on-site cafeterias. 
Fitness Centers – All Pioneer office locations have 
on-site fitness centers for employee use. Virtual Healthcare Access – When the world was 
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, Pioneer was able to seamlessly provide employees and their families with the same level of healthcare as before. Many of our programs already offered (or quickly adapted to) 
a telehealth option.
Focus on Mental HealthThe pandemic has put a spotlight on the mental health crisis in a new and immediate way. The stress, anxiety, isolation and uncertainty of this time are not only raising awareness but pushing us as individuals and as a society to have the honest conversations we always needed to have about mental health. Pioneer has always been proud to provide our employees and their families with a multi-channel offering of different resources to assist with achieving their optimal mental health and well-being. 
                              Feel 1 Mil                           In 2019, Pioneer launched Feel 1 Mil, 
                           a total mind and body wellness program.        
                           Feel 1 Mil offers several opportunities  
                            to nurture mind, body and spirit, allowing 
                           employees to prioritize their health 
                          and wellness. Employees and their families have access to our online wellness portal to track health and wellness goals. With services such as Teledoc, health bots, and on-site mammography and biometric screenings, employees have around-the-clock choices for preventative, mental and acute medical care.
ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE69Promoting TeamworkTeamwork and collaboration are cornerstones of our success. Along with internal team-building activities, Pioneer is the premier sponsor of two local community initiatives: Corporate Challenge held in Richardson, Texas, and Corporate Cup held in Midland. These community competitions are Olympic-style, coed team building tournaments that garner high participation among our employees. While these events were 
postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we eagerly anticipate their return and the opportunity to make 
an impact on our communities through philanthropic support while encouraging healthy competition 
and teamwork. Talent Management and DevelopmentAt Pioneer, our Performance Management process 
occurs quarterly and enables our employees to perform at their best. These formal performance reviews are aligned with the career development of all permanent employees. In accordance with our RESPECT values and culture, our Performance Management process encourages and reinforces:  • Ongoing feedback and coaching   • Employee growth and development for their 
     current role and future success  • Alignment of individual goals with company 
    goals and team objectives
Pioneer strives to build a more proficient and engaged workforce with skill-building and competency-based training and development opportunities. Our competency model comprises professional, leadership and technical competencies and complements our Individual Development Planning process. Our 
competecy-based development framework allows us to:  • Clarify what success looks like in current or future 
     job roles and career paths  • Enable data-driven decision-making on learning 
     and development priorities  • Provide guidance and employee development  • Promote candid feedback and career discussions   
     between employees and managers  • Empower employees to drive their own developmentPioneer offers many opportunities and resources to help employees grow their knowledge and skills in accordance with our 70/20/10 learning model (70% on-the-job and experience-based, 20% collaboration and coaching, 10% formal training). We offer employees a variety of self-service options, compliance trainings, technical trainings, consultation services, service 
provider partnerships and more. Pioneer University, 
in partnership with Cornerstone, has 800+ offerings. 
Talent PlanningOur Talent Planning approach identifies and targets development for critical talent. We identify critical roles based on several factors, including strategic importance, significant scope and impact, and unique skills. Successor candidates for those critical roles are then identified as those who have the interest, ability and experience to succeed in the critical role within five years. High potentials are identified based on an assessment of four factors of potential and their achievable level. Talent Planning enables Pioneer to proactively approach succession planning and offer targeted development for high potentials and successors, while enabling a cross-functional view of talent to 
increase visibility and mobility. Below is an example 
of a targeted development approach we put into 
place for officer-level successor candidates. 
Key Leadership Development Assessment – 
A 1.5-day program hosted by Leadership Worth 
Following, LLC, that includes online assessments, an in-depth interview and leadership simulations, as well as detailed feedback and coaching aimed at accelerating development of our future executive leaders.ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE70Investing in Future TalentA key component of our diversity strategy is recruiting the next generation of Pioneer employees. We carefully select interns and place them on challenging, problem-
solving projects that complement our ongoing exploration and development efforts. Each intern is assigned a mentor and team to maximize learning and collaboration. We broaden the pool of diverse job candidates by reaching out to local student chapters such as National Society of Black Engineers, Association of Women Geoscientists and Society of Women Engineers 
at approximately eight universities. Promoting
diversity initiatives on campus to engage female and underrepresented students through various university programs has shown to have a direct impact on the diversity of our new hires.
Our interns visit the oil field and view operations firsthand, such as drilling, completions, facilities development and gas processing, while interacting with engineers, geoscientists, technicians and field personnel. Field trips, which are designed to develop a comprehensive understanding of Pioneer’s oil and gas operations, also serve as a great way for interns to get to know each other and their fellow Pioneer employees.SOCIAL INVESTMENTPioneer and our employees have a storied philanthropic history – we seek out events, organizations and initiatives to support, constantly striving to improve the quality 
of life for our communities. Pioneer is proud of the volunteerism and willingness to give back by our employees. Our corporate charitable giving mission is to positively impact organizations that enhance the communities where we live and operate. To that end, our corporate giving strategy aligns with the needs of our communities, specifically the Permian Basin and 
the Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) area..ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE71CORPORATE GIVING: A STRATEGIC INVESTMENTPioneer’sOperationalE&P GoalsPhilanthropic& CommunityNeedsStrategicCorporate Giving• Recruitment &   Retention• License to OperatePioneer is committed to being a good neighbor. 
In 2020, we implemented a charitable giving match program for our employees, WELL Spent. Pioneer matches our employees’ donations (between $50 
and $5,000 annually) to the 501(c)(3) charitable 
organizations of their choice. The program helps us serve the needs of our communities and supports employee involvement. WELL Spent is more than donations – our corporate giving strategy includes organizing employee-focused volunteering events 
with many of our key charitable partners. In its 
inaugural year, WELL Spent enabled Pioneer and our employees to contribute $775,000 to charitable causes. Pioneer employees actively participate when it comes to bettering our communities. Many of our philanthropic partnerships include volunteer activities driven by employee activism and interests.In 2020, Pioneer and our employees contributed 
more than $4.1 million to hundreds of charitable 
organizations by utilizing a multi-layered approach that includes strategic corporate partnerships, 
volunteer committees, leadership oversight, employee-
driven matching and grants, and university gifts. 
Corporate Partnerships – A pillar of Pioneer’s giving is our commitment to strategic corporate partnerships that positively impact the communities where we live and work. These partnerships take various forms, from the funding of capital campaigns and sponsorship of fundraising events to support of key charitable 
organizations and their programs. Despite the 
unprecedented challenges of 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and historically low commodity prices, Pioneer steadfastly maintained our commitments to our philanthropic partners.
In 2020, some of our key Dallas community partners included: Dallas CASA and CASA of West Texas, Girls Inc., Irving Cares, Irving Schools Foundation, 
The Resource Center, Dallas Area Habitat for Humanity, Midland Habitat for Humanity and the Texas Trees Foundation. Pioneer corporate partnerships in the Permian community included: Centennial Park, Bustin’ for Badges, Petroleum Museum Science/Technology/Engineering/Math (STEM) Education Center, 
Midland Education Foundation, Safe Place of the 
Permian Basin and Permian Basin Workforce 
Development Board.ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE72ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE73ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE74ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE75Racial Equality – Pioneer is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen and a force for good. Racial injustice is inexcusable. At Pioneer, we remain committed to our RESPECT values both within the company and extending into the communities where we live and work.
As part of our commitment to responsible corporate citizenship, Pioneer donated $50,000 to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and $50,000 to Facing History and Ourselves. Facing History and Ourselves also presented a virtual “lunch and learn” to our employees about developing empathetic leadership. This session explored identity and membership in the context of “empathetic leadership,” the ability of leaders to understand, relate to, and 
be culturally sensitive to customers, colleagues, 
and communities.
GivingTuesday – In 2020, Pioneer hosted our 
second GivingTuesday corporate event to celebrate the global day of giving and collaboration. Pioneer 
tripled employees’ donations to a charitable 
organization of their choice, up to a $500 maximum. Employees had a 24-hour period to submit their contributions and match requests through the WELL Spent platform. GivingTuesday was a great success: More than 275 employees participated, representing every Pioneer office location and raising $285,000 – 
including the company match – for more than 312 charities. PXDCares – Employees at Pioneer show true heart and leadership in times of need. As the uncertainty related to COVID-19 grew, our employees jumped into action. From March through May, employees used the WELL Spent employee match to raise over $143,000 for 87 different charities, the majority of which went to DFW and Permian food banks. Employees also teamed up to use corporate and personal 3D printers for ventilator and mask needs, gathered with family members to help assemble face shields for frontline medical professionals, used their personal computers’ idle time to process protein chains for medical research into vaccines, and sewed hundreds of face masks for those 
in need. 
Pioneer searched our offices to gather and donate much-needed face masks, latex and nitrile gloves, N95 masks, safety glasses, sanitizer, cleaning supplies, and iPads to hospitals in the Permian Basin and DFW. We worked with our suppliers to purchase face masks for Midland and Irving Police and Fire Departments.ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE76In 2020, Pioneer corporately supported the following universities, 
for a total contribution of: $986,000University Gifts and MatchingPioneer needs a skilled, educated and talented 
work force to continue our successful operations. 
We work to attract top talent by direct involvement with schools, colleges and universities where we 
recruit. Pioneer Campus Recruiting has established relationships with university partners through campus engagement events like career fairs and interviews, student internships, and university donations to 
maintain a talent pipeline of young professionals. 
In 2020, Pioneer corporately supported these 
universities, contributing $986,000. Workforce and Social InvestmentsPioneer is a significant contributor to the economies 
of the communities where we operate and where our employees work and live. The following map depicts social investments in our operational area (the 
Midland Basin) and the state of Texas, as of 
December 31, 2020.
Production, or severance, taxes are levied by the state on companies producing natural resources. Ad valorem taxes are levied at a county level, where the producing resources are taxed according to their appraised fair market value.

Pioneer contributes to the U.S. economy and our nation’s increased energy security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil and reducing the overall cost of energy. However, we recognize that the increased development activity leads to challenges that we must address as an industry. As a Permian pure-play operator, Pioneer is exceptionally mindful of how we contribute, directly and indirectly, to the economies of the 
communities where we operate and where our employees work and live. While we positively and significantly impact the local economy through job creation, taxes and economic development opportunities for our partners, our operations also amplify the strain on education, housing and infrastructure. In 2020, Pioneer paid more than $370 million in state and local taxes and royalties. The following map depicts the number of people Pioneer employed in West Texas and North Texas (our headquarters) in 2020 and the state and county taxes Pioneer paid in 2020.ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE77714 JobsTEXAS1,141 
JobsADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE78Permian Strategic Partnership – As the Permian Basin has long been one of the most active and largest oil and gas basins globally, the people and communities have experienced the cycles of oil booms and busts. While the “boom” times were good, the “busts” 
compelled permanent residents, businesses and 
communities to save their money, a pattern that 
resulted in a lack of infrastructure investment. 
The development of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing technologies has unlocked a vast resource of previously untapped oil within the Basin. Seemingly overnight, new opportunities for residents, producers and service companies were abundant. However, Permian towns like Midland and Odessa desperately needed an injection of resources and industry partnership. 
After announcing our intention to become a Permian pure-play operator in late 2017, Pioneer recognized the rapid level of oil and gas development in the region was creating critical needs within the local community that required creative and enduring solutions. Working with nine other companies operating in the region, Pioneer led the creation of the Permian Strategic 
Partnership. This unprecedented coalition in the oil and gas industry is dedicated to improving the quality of life for Permian Basin residents in five key areas: PERMIAN STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPThe Permian Strategic Partnership, now consisting of 19 member companies, is a catalyst for advancing these five goals by bringing stakeholders together; advocating for local communities with national, state and local officials; and contributing people, expertise and resources to help 
plan for and meet local needs. To support this effort, the Permian Strategic Partnership has committed to providing more than $100 million as seed money to spur more 
than $800 million in other public- and private-sector 
investments and support projects to improve the region’s 
quality of life and livelihoods. Pioneer is proud of our role in founding the Permian Strategic Partnership and committed to supporting the impactful initiatives that the coalition implements. The partnership’s impressive string of successes in its relatively short existence comes not only from the character of the historic collaboration but the region itself. The Partnership’s President and CEO Tracee Bentley believes that the role of the Permian Strategic Partnership “is to be a catalyst via dollars and advocacy 
to make big, transformative change in the Permian Basin.” Here are some recent advancements the Permian Strategic Partnership made in local education:
IDEA Charter Schools – Partners invested nearly $17 
million to bring in regionally respected IDEA charter schools. An acronym for Individuals Dedicated to Excellence and Achievement, the organization was founded in 2000 in the Rio Grande area of Texas and quickly gained a 
reputation for pledging that “every child who wanted 
to get into college will be able to if they come out of 
an IDEA school,” Bentley says. Construction recently 
started on another IDEA school in Odessa. 
Educator Training – According to Bentley, “Studies show giving teachers access to advanced learning techniques is one thing they want the most because that training directly correlates to classroom teaching and student performance.” The Partnership spent $2 million to certify more than 300 teachers through the National Board Certification program.
Equal Access Education – Student access to reliable internet service during the COVID-19 lockdown became an “emergency situation” for the partners, Bentley explains, because there were many places where kids had zero connectivity due to the rural geography of the vast basin. That technological breakdown understandably panicked teachers, who worried they were losing track of their students because of the lack of connectivity. A broadband working group assembled to provide service “immediately.” Through the diverse partners they convened, the 
partnership learned global technology company SpaceX was piloting low-altitude satellites designed to deliver broadband. The partnership spent $100,000 to launch dozens of the Starlink systems.  Excellent SchoolsSafer RoadsQuality Health CareAffordable HousingTrained WorkforceADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE79“The Permian Strategic Partnership set out with an ambitious goal in mind: to invest in a region and its communities to 
address challenges in a transformational way. Pioneer 
Natural Resources was a founding member of the Permian Strategic Partnership and brought leadership and vision at a critical time. They continue to be a vital pillar of our organization, 
and we are so grateful for all they continue to give.”– Tracee Bentley, President and CEO, Permian Strategic PartnershipADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE80ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE81LOBBYING AND ADVOCACYAll Pioneer lobbying and advocacy expenditures are made in the U.S. In 2020, Pioneer made significant financial contributions (more than $25,000) to the following trade and business associations, which we consider strategic partners: Political EngagementPioneer works in conjunction with industry partners to advocate for a secure energy future. We actively participate in the political process, with the goal of informing policymakers and regulators about our 
business and advocating for policy solutions that 
mutually benefit our state, local communities, 
industry, Pioneer and our shareholders.
National and State Trade Associations Pioneer collaborates with national, state and regional trade associations representing the oil and gas industry to share information and advance a common agenda on legislative and regulatory matters.
Pioneer has adopted a policy on political expenditures, which is set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and is applicable to all Pioneer Directors and employees. As stated in the policy, no company funds may be used for political contributions in the U.S. or in any foreign country, unless permitted by 
law, approved by the chief executive officer or chief operating officer, and then approved by either the general counsel or chief compliance officer. Pioneer employees fulfill annual training requirements 
regarding political contribution processes.
The charter of the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee of the Board provides for 
the committee’s oversight of all Pioneer political spending and lobbying activities. The committee, which is comprised entirely of independent directors, receives an annual report from senior management 
on Pioneer’s political activities, including corporate contributions to issue campaigns or referenda; 
payments to 527 organizations, 501(c)(4) groups, 
and other tax-exempt organizations; dues paid to 
trade associations; and political action committee (PAC) contributions.
Corporate Political ContributionsPioneer may make occasional corporate contributions to political organizations and campaigns whose objectives are consistent with our business objectives in the areas in which we operate. While Pioneer directors and 
employees are free to participate in the political process individually, they may not represent a personal political contribution as being made on behalf of the company, and no director or employee may seek 
reimbursement, directly or indirectly, from Pioneer 
for any political contribution. In 2020, Pioneer only made one corporate political contribution. The 
contribution was for $5,000 to the Texas Republican Legislative Caucus.
Political Action Committees
Some eligible employees contribute to PACs sponsored by Pioneer. The activities of the Pioneer PACs are subject to comprehensive governmental regulation, including detailed disclosure requirements. These disclosures are posted on the website of the Federal Election Commission or the Texas Ethics Commission, where they can be reviewed by members of the public. All distributions made from the PACs are approved by their respective boards, currently comprised of senior members of management. All suggested distributions are reviewed to ensure they are consistent with legal limits and are delivered to entities eligible to receive PAC funds. All contributions to PACs are voluntary, and it is Pioneer’s policy that no one be favored or 
disadvantaged by reason of the amount of their 
contribution or their decision not to contribute. 
For additional information on political expenditures, visit PXD.com > Culture > Advocacy.ADVANCING SOCIAL VALUE82ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND ASSURANCEOur Annual Report and financial filings include a discussion of material risks and other matters that we believe are material to our investors. The term materiality, as used in this report, is based on a different definition of materiality than used in U.S. securities laws. Insofar as the determination of materiality for these purposes is based on laws and regulations applicable to securities filings and other investor communications, the topics deemed material in the context of financial reporting may differ from the topics that we determine are 
material for sustainability reporting purposes.
Forward-looking StatementsThis report contains forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward- 
looking statements may be identified by the use 
of words such as “target,” “will,” “plan,” “expect,” 
“forecast,” “future,” “commit,” “intend,” “potential,” 
“estimate,” and similar expressions that contemplate future events. The forward-looking statements speak 
only as of the date made, and Pioneer undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements.
Cautionary Statement Regarding 
Forward-looking Information Except for historical information contained herein, 
the statements in this report are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject 
to a number of risks and uncertainties that may cause 
Pioneer’s actual results in future periods to differ 
materially from the forward-looking statements. 
These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, volatility of commodity prices, the impact of a widespread outbreak of an illness, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, on global and U.S. economic activity; the ability to obtain environmental and other permits and the timing thereof; other government regulation or action; Pioneer’s ability to achieve its emissions reduction and flaring goals; the assumptions underlying forecasts; and environmental and weather risks, including the possible impacts of climate change. These and other risks are described in Pioneer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed thereafter and other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, Pioneer may be subject to currently unforeseen risks that may have a materially adverse effect on it. Accordingly, no assurances can 
be given that the actual events and results will not be materially different than the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements, and readers are 
cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such 
statements. Pioneer undertakes no, and expressly 
disclaims any, duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. This report contains statements based on hypothetical or severely adverse scenarios and assumptions, and these statements should not necessarily be viewed as being representative of expected risk. While future events discussed in this report may be significant, any significance should not be read as necessarily rising to the level of materiality of the disclosures required under the U.S. federal securities laws. 

AssurancePioneer conducted an internal audit of this report 
to determine whether subject matter experts in each department provided adequate supporting documentation and data to substantiate the information disclosed in this report. A weekly audit report was provided to key contributors, and a final, comprehensive analysis was presented to the ESG Task Force at the end of the full reporting process. The Corporate Sustainability Report was then, with review and guidance from the Board of Directors, approved for publication by the ESG Task Force and Management Committee. 