2019 Sustainability Report Letter from the CEO It is my pleasure to introduce On the environmental front, our stakeholders continue to focus closely on how the company Pioneer’s third annual Sustainability is managing air emissions from our operations. Report covering the company’s This work has been a priority for Pioneer over activities during calendar year 2018. the past several years. In fact, since 2016 Pioneer Last year was another successful year for Pioneer as has significantly reduced both our greenhouse we continued our transformation gas and methane emissions and into a Permian pure-play company. intensities, while continuing to We know that in In fact, our Permian production achieve our production goals. exceeded 300,000 barrels of oil order to continue Details about these reductions are equivalent per day in the fourth to provide value to documented on pages 17-30 of quarter of 2018 – a new milestone our shareholders, this report. In 2018, the company for the company. We know that in committed to two new industry order to continue to provide value we must remain partnerships designed to help achieve to our shareholders, we must focused on our significant emissions reductions. remain focused on our license license to operate The first is the Collaboratory to operate and committed to and committed to to Advance Methane Science environmental, social and (CAMS). CAMS will bring together governance (ESG) issues. To environmental, a diverse group of experts from that end, this report highlights social and industry and academia to conduct many of our efforts to ensure that our operations are performed governance issues. studies addressing methane emissions along the natural gas value chain. safely and with respect for the The Gas Technology Institute (GTI) will serve as environment, that our people are provided with the program administrator. Other major companies the resources they need to be collaborative joining Pioneer in this effort include BP, Cheniere, and successful in their careers, and that the Chevron, Equinor and ExxonMobil. communities in which we operate share in the opportunities created by our investments. LETTER FROM THE CEO The second industry collaboration focused on reducing air emissions is The Environmental Partnership. The Environmental Partnership is comprised of companies in the oil and gas industry committed to continuously improving environmental performance. The group is focused on reducing emissions of methane and volatile organic compounds from the industry’s operations in three specific areas – 1) pneumatic controllers, 2) manual liquids unloading and 3) leak detection and repair. I am proud to say Pioneer already meets or exceeds the Partnership’s performance goals in each of these three areas. Pioneer also continues to develop unique partnerships with the communities in which we operate. Throughout 2018, our company played a leading role in forming the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP), an organization made up of 20 large companies operating in the Permian Basin, including companies from the exploration and production, service and midstream sectors. The PSP was formally chartered in November of 2018 and will be fully operational in 2019. The group’s mission is to improve the quality of life for Permian Basin families by partnering with local leaders to develop and implement strategic plans to foster superior education, accessible housing, a supportive healthcare system, safer roads, and workforce development. To our knowledge there isn’t another organization quite like it in the oil and gas industry. At our headquarters in Irving, Texas, we are one of only two companies to place in the top 10 of The Dallas Morning News’ Top 100 Places to Work survey for the ten consecutive years the survey has been in existence. We’re especially proud of this distinction, because it is based on direct feedback from our employees. These are just a few of our 2018 highlights. The full report includes data and information on how Pioneer governs and manages ESG issues, air and water quality, climate change, land use, safety statistics, political advocacy, and human resources initiatives. I hope you find the report informative. Sincerely, Scott D. Sheffield President and Chief Executive Officer LETTER FROM THE CEO Reporting Principles Pioneer’s Sustainability Report highlights the specific sustainability-related governance and risk management measures we undertake to actively address issues important to both Pioneer and our internal and external stakeholders. To more effectively prioritize and manage our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) information, the company formed an ESG advisory group comprised of executive leadership and subject matter experts from key functions in our organization. The ESG advisory group reviews and prioritizes sustainability issues relevant to Pioneer and guides the company’s sustainability reporting relative to our peer group and industry. REPORTING PRINCIPLES Reporting Framework Our 2019 Sustainability Report references the reporting standards, terminology, and performance metrics developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA). To help stakeholders locate this information, a Performance Data Table and Sustainability Content Index are provided on pages 53-62. Reporting Scope Unless otherwise indicated, the 2019 Pioneer Natural Resources Sustainability Report includes data and information from January 1, 2018, through December 31, 2018, and is focused on our direct operations as outlined in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report) filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Pioneer has an integrated services model, with employees assigned to exploration and production (E&P) operations roles, and to roles within our service functions – Pioneer Well Services and the Pioneer Infrastructure Group. Performance metric subdivisions along these functional roles have been provided to better delineate our performance relative to industry peer companies. Pioneer completed the divestment of its Raton Basin and West Panhandle assets in July and August of 2018, respectively. In November 2018, the company announced plans to close its sand mine operations in Central Texas, and, in December 2018, Pioneer completed the divestment of its pressure-pumping services assets. Consistent with reporting requirements, the Raton Basin and West Panhandle assets were not included as part of the USEPA greenhouse gas or Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) injury and illness programs, for the 2018 reporting year. However, Pioneer’s pressure-pumping and sand mining operations are included in our 2018 performance metrics. In 2018, all Pioneer operations occurred onshore and interior to the State of Texas. Sustainability Reporting Materiality Assessment Pioneer conducted a materiality assessment to identify and prioritize sustainability topics we believe are most significant to our stakeholders. The content prioritization of this report is the result of an ongoing process that considers perspectives from a variety of sources, including employees, investors, and other key external stakeholders, as well as relevant reporting guidelines. In 2018, to better understand these issues, we conducted an additional analysis of current and emerging environmental and sustainability risks associated with our operations. Pioneer engaged both internal and external individuals and organizations to understand their respective views of perceived risks, the likelihood of their occurrence and potential impacts. The results of these conversations inform our sustainability strategy and help guide the content of this report. Prioritized issues included greenhouse gas emissions, usable water scarcity, produced water management, induced seismicity, and land and infrastructure footprint. Beyond general annual updates, Pioneer’s 2019 Sustainability Report now includes additional discussion on these topics. We expect the content of our sustainability reporting to evolve as Pioneer’s leadership analyzes and responds to this feedback. Our Annual Report and financial filings include material risks as defined by regulatory requirements or which we believe are material to our investors. Detailed analysis of our financial performance can also be found in our Annual Report. Prioritizing Material Issues REPORTING PRINCIPLES Company Overview and Corporate Strategy Pioneer Natural Resources Company (“Pioneer”) is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company that explores for, develops and produces oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas within the United States, with operations primarily in the Permian Basin in West Texas. The company’s mission is to be America’s leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, the environment, technology and, our greatest asset, our people. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY With approximately 760,000 gross acres (680,000 net acres), Pioneer is the largest acreage holder in the Midland Basin, which the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) estimates is the largest continuous oil field in the United States. Pioneer’s interests in the northern portion of the play comprise approximately 560,000 gross acres and its interests in the southern portion of the play, where the company has a joint venture with Sinochem, comprise approximately 200,000 gross acres. 3,177EMPLOYEES 1,006EMPLOYED IN FIELD & PLANT OPERATIONS PIONEER AT A GLANCE  • AT DECEMBER 31, 2018 COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY ENTERPRISE VALUE PROVED RESERVES1,049MILLION~$23 BILLION BOE (YEAR END 2018) (YEAR END 2018) PIONEER AT A GLANCE NET PRODUCING WELLSAVERAGE DAILY PRODUCTION FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (2018) ~6,900~320,000MBOE (YEAR END 2018) COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY Governance Pioneer’s governance practices are described in our Corporate Governance Guidelines. Pioneer’s Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the company’s assessment of major risks, including those related to sustainable development, and the measures taken to manage such risks. Pioneer views sustainable development as a multidisciplinary approach to our business, which balances economic growth, environmental stewardship and social responsibility. The Pioneer Board includes two formal committees and one ad hoc committee with corporate sustainability oversight. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Committee: The HSE Committee oversees broad company health, safety, environmental, and sustainability practices, including management efforts to create a culture of safety and environmental protection practices. The committee reviews and approves goals for Pioneer’s health, safety and environmental programs and periodically reviews progress toward those goals; reports to the full Board on health, safety and environmental matters at least once per year; and provides oversight to company management regarding the company’s sustainable development program, including sustainability reporting. In addition, the Board of Directors’ HSE committee members take an active role in continuing to cultivate our HSE culture and performance improvement. In addition to providing oversight for our HSE practices, the committee members regularly visit Pioneer’s operational facilities and speak with employees personally, learning firsthand about Pioneer field operations and what the company’s Board members can do to provide better support for safety, health and environmental initiatives. Through these visits, the committee members are able to assess many different aspects of our operations, interact directly with Pioneer employees in the field, see the latest environmental innovations being tested and report their observations to the full Board of Directors. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee: The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees risks related to governance structures and processes, including Board and committee composition and succession planning; director independence; and Pioneer charitable contributions, political spending and lobbying activities. The detailed responsibilities for each committee are outlined in their respective Committee Charters. Additionally, as part of the evolution of our sustainability disclosures, the Board formed an ad hoc committee that includes, among other directors, the chair of the HSE committee and the Board chairman, to provide oversight and guidance for the company’s preparation of its Sustainability Report. Role of Pioneer Leadership Building on the Board of Directors’ active oversight role, executive, technical and field staff participate in a cross-functional Health, Safety and Environmental Committee (HSEC). The committee convenes regularly to manage HSE and sustainability issues effectively and consistently, conducting monthly reviews of HSE performance, including current and emerging HSE issues and continuous improvement. Commitment to Ethical Operations Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics represents the standards of integrity and business conduct that every Pioneer employee, officer and director must uphold and follow. Pioneer supports multiple methods of reporting compliance concerns, including anonymous reporting through our toll-free compliance hotline and online compliance portal, and we strictly prohibit retaliation against any person for providing truthful information relating to a possible violation of law or company policy. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY Human Rights Commitment As a company operating solely within the United States, Pioneer adheres to its laws with respect to human rights, including laws prohibiting discrimination in the workplace, child labor and forced labor. Our policies regarding human rights are also reflected in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, making it a corporate value to conduct our business with respect for each other and the communities in which we operate. We recognize the dignity of all human beings, and our Pioneer core values embrace these inalienable rights for all people to live their lives free from social, political, or economic discrimination or abuse. Our Pioneer Core Values, based on the concept of RESPECT, are the foundational principles on which our company is built: 