OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY Advocacy and Lobbying Pioneer works in conjunction with industry partners to advocate for a secure energy future. We actively participate in the political process, with the goal of informing policymakers and regulators about our business and advocating for policy solutions that mutually benefit the communities and states in which we operate, our industry, Pioneer, and our stockholders. *Chart above does not include 223 employees from our Pioneer Sands     subsidiary officed in various locations. National and State Trade Associations Pioneer collaborates with a number of national, state and regional trade associations representing the oil and gas industry to share information and advance a common agenda on legislative and regulatory matters. OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY All Pioneer lobbying and advocacy expenditures are made in the United States. In 2018, Pioneer made significant financial contributions (more than $25,000) to the following trade and business associations, which we considered strategic partners: ROPE Royalty Owners & Producers Educational Coalition A comprehensive list of lobbying and advocacy contributions for 2018 can be found on the Advocacy page of PXD.com. Political Expenditures Pioneer has adopted a policy regarding political expenditures, which is set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and is applicable to all Pioneer directors and employees. Under the policy, no company funds may be used for political contributions in the United States, unless permitted by law, approved by the Chief Executive Officer, and then approved by either the General Counsel or Chief Compliance Officer. The charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of Pioneer’s Board of Directors provides for the committee’s oversight of all Pioneer political spending and lobbying activities. The committee, which is composed entirely of independent directors, and the full Board of Directors, receive an annual report from senior management regarding Pioneer OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT AND ADVOCACY 51 political activities, including corporate contributions to issue campaigns or referenda, payments to 527 organizations, 501(c)(4) groups, and other tax-exempt organizations, dues paid to trade associations, and political action committee (PAC) contributions. Corporate Political Contributions Pioneer may make occasional corporate contributions to political organizations and issue campaigns whose objectives are consistent with our business objectives in the areas in which we operate. While Pioneer directors and employees are free to participate in the political process individually, they may not represent a personal political contribution as being made on behalf of the company, and no director or employee may seek reimbursement, directly or indirectly, from Pioneer for any political contribution. Pioneer did not make any corporate political contributions in 2018. Political Action Committees (PACs) Some eligible employees contribute to PACs sponsored by Pioneer. The activities of the Pioneer PACs are subject to comprehensive governmental regulation, including detailed disclosure requirements. These disclosures are posted on the website of the Federal Election Commission or the Texas Ethics Commission, where they can be reviewed by members of the public. All distributions made from the PACs are approved by their respective boards, currently comprising senior members of management. All suggested distributions are reviewed to ensure they are consistent with legal limits and are delivered to entities eligible to receive PAC funds. All contributions to PACs are voluntary, and it is Pioneer policy that no one be favored or disadvantaged by reason of the amount of their contribution or their decision not to contribute. A comprehensive list of our PAC contributions for 2018 can be found on the Advocacy page of PXD.com. 