WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Pioneer’s core values are focused on people, including employees, contractors and those with whom we interact in the communities where we live and work. Top Places to Work Distinction For 2016, Pioneer ranked first among large employers in the Dallas/Fort Worth area in an annual survey for the best places to work administered by The Dallas Morning News. We are proud this is the seventh consecutive year Pioneer has been ranked in the top three, and Pioneer is one of only four companies to place in the Morning News’ Top 100 Places to Work every year since the program’s inception in 2009. More information about Pioneer’s employee practices is available in the CAREERS section of our website:   http://www.PXD.com/careers. Diversity and Inclusion Pioneer is committed to creating an inclusive environment where all employees feel respected, valued and connected to the business. We strive to be a workplace where individuals bring their authentic selves and are successful in achieving their goals. An inclusive workplace enables us to embrace the diverse backgrounds and perspectives of employees and attract the best talent. Pioneer Human Resources includes a Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) manager whose role is to serve as a dedicated in-house resource leading Pioneer’s D&I efforts. All employees participate in diversity training, which is developed specifically for Pioneer and its culture. Pioneer also offers a formal mentoring program that has reached more than 200 professionals. 34 05.  WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Pioneer encourages the establishment of Employee Resource Groups, and each of the following groups has an executive-level sponsor and mission statement: • The Women’s Resource Group seeks to engage and empower the women at Pioneer for the benefit of Pioneer and the community. • The Military Resource Group advocates for the recruitment, development and support of military members and their families at Pioneer. • The Multicultural Resource Group works to foster a culture of inclusion through promoting a positive understanding of our differences. • The Pioneering Innovative Leaders of Tomorrow (PILOT) group cultivates cross-discipline communication and professional development among technical professionals who are relatively new to the oil and gas industry. • One Pioneer Mentoring seeks to empower employees to connect through mentoring relationships which enhance their professional and personal development. WOMEN’S RESOURCE GROUP INITIATES CHANGE Pioneer’s executive management team uses a variety of channels to solicit advice and feedback from employees throughout the year. The company’s Employee Resource Groups have been invaluable assets in this regard, as they are particularly well situated to offer insights into the issues employees care most about. One example of this network producing meaningful change is the adoption of Pioneer’s new parental leave policy. In late 2016, President and CEO Tim Dove met with the president of Pioneer’s Women’s Resource Group (WRG) to solicit feedback on what the company could improve upon for women in the organization. The WRG conducted a survey of the company’s female employees asking for their thoughts on what Pioneer does well and what areas warranted improvement. The survey results identified the company’s parental leave policy as an opportunity to further enhance Pioneer’s employee benefits. At the direction of the management committee, Pioneer’s Human Resources department analyzed how Pioneer’s policy stacked up against not only our peer companies, but also the most dynamic companies in the S&P 500. As a result, Pioneer’s new gender-inclusive parental leave policy went into effect on September 1, 2017. The progressive change grants the primary caregiver 12 weeks of leave at 100 percent full pay. “Making our parental leave policy more family friendly is a win for employees and the company,” said Amy Bell, president of the WRG. “Providing parents with additional flexibility makes it easier to enter the workforce and come back after having a child. This example shows the value of management support of and interaction with the company’s employee resource groups.” 05.  WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Community Involvement and Social Investments We are committed to being a good neighbor and maintaining an open dialogue with local communities. Our employees value the opportunity to enrich the areas in which they live and work. They seek out events, organizations, and initiatives to support with their own time, talents, and donations. Pioneer is proud of the volunteerism of our teams and our employees’ generosity in giving back. Habitat for Humanity:  Pioneer has partnered with Dallas Area Habitat for Humanity since 2006 in support of their efforts to transform communities through home ownership. The organization, which was founded in 1986, has helped more than 1,600 families in 25 communities around the city. Habitat programs build financial stability for generations and are a catalyst for economic development in many often-overlooked communities in Dallas. Through this longstanding partnership, Pioneer has donated more than $3 million, built 18 new homes and made repairs on 27 other homes through the Habitat “A Brush With Kindness” program, which offers minor exterior home repair services for owners with certain age, disability or family circumstances, seeking to revitalize the appearance of the neighborhood, encourage connections within the community and, most importantly, help residents reclaim their homes with dignity. HABIT FOR HUMANITY: The Thompson Family The first home Pioneer sponsored and built in 2006 was located in South Dallas. Latasha Thompson and her three children moved into the home from a small apartment and recalls the impact home ownership had on her life. “It made me feel like I had Superman’s ‘S’ on my chest,” she remembered. “My self-esteem went up, because I didn’t feel like it could happen, but it did.” Her children were so happy to be out of their apartment and would talk to their friends on the phone inviting them over to see their new house. When she moved in, she didn’t have many belongings to furnish her new home. Pioneer donated gift cards and furniture to help make her new house feel more like home. “They treated me like family,” Latasha said. Latasha paid off her mortgage in November 2016 and now owns her own house with no mortgage payments left. “It’s a big accomplishment to have a house that’s all mine.” 05.  WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT “Every day, we see firsthand the critical role decent housing plays in creating positive outcomes in people’s lives and in communities,” said Bill Hall, CEO for Dallas Area Habitat for Humanity. “Access to affordable financing would not be possible for our homebuyers without the partnership of generous supporters like Pioneer Natural Resources who see immense value in the investment they are making in communities. A new Habitat house means a family can build asset wealth and live in the stability of a safe neighborhood with a good school, while the community has one more family invested in its success. We are grateful for Pioneer’s continued partnership and commitment to our shared vision of ensuring everyone has a decent place to live.” Pioneer recently adopted the Joppa neighborhood in South Dallas and made a $1 million commitment to revitalizing the historic area. Pioneer employees have a heart for Habitat’s mission, as evidenced by the more than 450 Pioneer employees who volunteered approximately 4,000 hours in 2016 to build two homes and complete five home renovation projects in the neighborhood. With a nod to the past and a bright future, Pioneer looks forward to continuing its longstanding partnership in transforming communities with Dallas Area Habitat for Humanity. While Pioneer’s relationship with the Midland Area Habitat for Humanity is newer, our west Texas employees are no less dedicated to this wonderful cause that helps transform communities in their local region. In 2016, the company contributed $38,000 to help fund the building of 1.5 houses by our employees through the organization. United Way:  United Way chapters across the country invest in improving the education, financial stability and health of families and individuals in targeted communities by partnering with local non-profit agencies for the greatest impact. The organization empowers residents to reach out and help their neighbors in need, and it has inspired Pioneer employees to do the same. Employees give generously, and the company matches every dollar employees pledge and raise for an even greater donation to United Way chapters. In the Dallas area, Pioneer and its Irving-based employees have donated $3.8 million to United Way since 2005. Our employees in the Midland area not only give to the United Way on an individual level, but they also organize creative fundraising events. In 2016, Pioneer employees, in conjunction with the company match, contributed more than $85,000 to the Midland United Way. 05.  WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Together, United Way and Pioneer work to create positive, perceptible change in their communities while improving the lives of others. Dallas CASA: Pioneer is a strong supporter of Dallas CASA (Court Appointed Special Advocates) and its conviction that all children have the right to be safe. Founded in 1980, Dallas CASA is now the largest CASA program in Texas. Last year, a total of 4,626 abused and neglected Dallas County children lived in foster care and other protective care placements. In 2016, Dallas CASA served 2,768 children with nearly 1,100 volunteer advocates. Still, the year ended with more than one out of four children left to navigate through the complex child welfare system without a CASA volunteer, reinforcing the resolve of Pioneer and Dallas CASA to serve each and every child in need. Pioneer, together with Goldman Sachs and AT&T, co-hosts the annual Dallas CASA Classic invitational golf tournament. The tournament is now the highest grossing non-PGA, one-day charity tournament in Texas. Through 2016, the Dallas CASA Classic has raised $14.2 million ($1.3 million in 2016) to help more than 7,100 abused and neglected children have safe, permanent homes. These funds have made it possible for Dallas CASA to serve a far greater number of abused children who desperately need the powerful advocacy and the constant, caring “lifeline” connection CASA volunteers provide. Youth and Education:  Contributing to youth and education initiatives is also a priority for the company. As a strong advocate for academic enrichment in all our operating areas, Pioneer encourages education in young adults by partnering with our employees, local communities, community colleges and universities, through both small and large programs. Throughout the years, Pioneer has forged a strong partnership with the Midland Independent School District, illustrating the company’s ongoing dedication to education in the community. At Parker Elementary School, Pioneer employee volunteers visit students weekly to help them with their reading, spelling and math lessons. These mentors create a positive impact in the students’ lives through tutoring and by providing a beneficial relationship with an adult role model. Parker students also travel on an end-of-year field trip to Pioneer’s Midland office to learn about their mentors’ jobs and workplace. 05.  WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT The YOUth LEADership Conference is an annual program in the Eagle Ford Shale operating area that equips middle school students with essential leadership skills needed to help them reach their education and career goals. Pioneer hosts the five-day conference with the Victoria Business and Education Coalition each June at the Victoria College campus. Incoming seventh graders throughout the Eagle Ford Shale region are nominated to participate by principals, teachers, counselors and clergy members. One hundred students are selected to participate and 30 past participants return to serve as team leaders. The program highlights the importance of achieving success through continued education, honesty, integrity, perseverance, courage and diligence. Above:  YOUth LEADership Conference 05.  WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Located on the campus of Midland College, Early College High School (ECHS) is an innovative collaboration between the Midland Independent School District and Midland College to provide students with the opportunity and support necessary to obtain a high school diploma and an associate’s degree in just four years. The majority of students come from underserved minority and low-income communities where many of ECHS’s potential first-generation college students lack the support network to pursue a college education. ECHS’s attendance rate has been the highest in the district every year since its inception in 2009. Pioneer has been a major sponsor since 2012, contributing over $1.2 million during that time. ECHS has become the standard for academic excellence in the Midland Independent School District and the surrounding communities. The class of 2016 had 74 graduates, 92 percent of whom obtained an associate’s degree in addition to their high school diploma and 100 percent state they will pursue a degree at a four-year university. 