WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT“Quite simply, we want to 
be the best place to work within our industry, and we want to actively enhance the communities in which we live, work and operate.”WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT35Top Places to Work DistinctionFor 2017, Pioneer ranked fifth among large employers in the Dallas/Fort Worth area in 
The Dallas Morning News’ annual Top 100 Places to Work survey. Pioneer is one of only four 
companies to place in the Morning News’ Top 100 Places to Work top 10 every year since the 
program’s inception in 2009.More information about Pioneer’s employee practices 
is available in the CAREERS section of our website: http://www.PXD.com/careers.7Pioneer’s core values are focused on people, including employees, contractors and those 
with whom we interact in our communities. 
At the highest level, our leadership team keeps our company culture and employee well-being 
at the forefront. Diversity and Inclusion: One PioneerPioneer is committed to creating an inclusive environment where all employees feel respected, valued and connected to the business. We strive to be a workplace where individuals bring their authentic selves and are successful in achieving their goals. An inclusive workplace enables us to embrace the diverse backgrounds and perspectives of employees and attract the best talent.While Pioneer’s Diversity and Inclusion program is less than four years old, we are proud of our progress and excited about the momentum we’ve gained through grassroots interest, support from leadership, and participation in our training and programs that build awareness of differences and teach us how to better leverage them to achieve business results. 

As part of our commitment, Human Resources has a dedicated Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) team that oversees our Diversity and Inclusion program, One Pioneer. One Pioneer focuses on the 
following areas related to diversity and inclusion:  • Community: Positively impact our communities    
     by providing opportunities to economically 
     disadvantaged youth and increasing  
     underrepresented groups in the science, 
     technology, engineering and math 
     (STEM) fields.    • Culture: Promote a culture of innovation and 
     inclusion where all employees feel respected   
     and valued as their authentic selves.   • Talent: Develop accountable leadership and  
     talent programs that enable us to reach full   
     representation of women and people of color. 
     Educate employees and leaders to appreciate 
     and leverage differences.WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT36An essential part of the One Pioneer program is our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). Our ERGs definitely have a positive impact on our company culture. They offer programs that 
develop members, establish mentoring networks, offer close collaboration with philanthropic 
organizations, and encourage underrepresented groups to enter the industry and STEM fields. We are proud of the commitment and 
participation across all levels within Pioneer. 
In 2017, we experienced a 15 percent increase 
in ERG membership.Pioneer is proud to have five thriving ERGs:  • The Women’s Resource Group seeks to 
    engage and empower the women at Pioneer 
    for the benefit of Pioneer and the community.  • The Military Resource Group advocates for   
    the recruitment, development and support of 
    military members and their families at Pioneer.  • The Multicultural Resource Group works to  
    foster a culture of inclusion through promoting 
    a positive understanding of our differences.   • The Pioneering Innovative Leaders of 
     Tomorrow (PILOT) group cultivates cross-
     discipline communication and professional  
     development among technical professionals  
     who are relatively new to the oil and gas industry.  • One Pioneer Mentoring seeks to empower 
     employees to connect through mentoring   
     relationships which enhance their professional    
     and personal development.WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT37PILOT Resource Group Celebrates 10 Years
“I don’t think we knew at the time how truly impactful it was going to be,” 
says Beth McDonald, vice president, Permian Infrastructure Development and Operations, reflecting on the 
significant accomplishments of the group she created 10 years ago.Beth founded the Pioneering 
Innovative Leaders of Tomorrow 
(PILOT) group in 2007 to improve 
the Pioneer culture among employees new to the Oil & Gas industry and 
give them a platform to advance 
their careers.“Without a doubt, PILOT has contributed to my personal career growth,” explains Lauren Woodward, PILOT’s 2017 
vice president of membership and volunteerism and a member of the Technology Strategy team. “The 
relationships I’ve formed have connected me to new parts of our organization and allowed me to represent a powerful group of future leaders who are 
engaged in the success of our company.”PILOT, with branches in both Irving and Midland, welcomes members 
with fewer than five years’ experience at Pioneer or less than seven years’ experience in the industry. Every year, PILOT adds new members and more opportunities for growth, including an annual three-day conference focused on innovation, team-building and 
professional development. “The people I meet teach me valuable lessons you don’t learn in a classroom or read in a ‘Leadership 101’ book,” says Ryan Kelley, engineering analyst and PILOT’s 2017 president. “PILOT has given me and others the connections, skills and confidence early career 
professionals need to take significant roles in achieving Pioneer’s future vision.”Community Involvement and Social InvestmentsWe are committed to being a good neighbor 
and maintaining an open dialogue with local 
communities. Our employees value the opportunity to enrich the areas in which they live and work. They seek out events, organizations, and initiatives to support with their own time, talents, and donations. Pioneer is proud of the volunteerism of our teams and our employees’ generosity in giving back. Habitat for Humanity: Pioneer has partnered with Dallas Area Habitat for Humanity since 2006 in support of their efforts to transform communities through home ownership. The organization, which was founded in 1986, has helped more than 1,600 families in 25 communities around the city. 
Habitat programs build financial stability for 
generations and are a catalyst for economic 
development in many often-overlooked 
communities in Dallas. Through our longstanding partnership, 
Pioneer has donated more than $3.5 million, built 20 new homes and made repairs on 28 other homes through the Habitat “A Brush With Kindness” program, which offers minor exterior home repair services for owners with certain age, disability or family circumstances, seeking to revitalize the appearance of the neighborhood, encourage connections within the community 
and, most importantly, help residents reclaim 
their homes with dignity.In 2017, Pioneer concluded its three-year, $1 million commitment to the Joppa neighborhood in South Dallas, helping to revitalize this historic area. 
Our employees have a heart for Habitat’s 
mission, as evidenced by the more than 515 
Pioneer employees who volunteered to build 
four homes and complete five home renovation projects in the neighborhood. The last week of October, Pioneer volunteers 
completed our work in Joppa with a bang, 
participating in the “Pioneering the Way” Blitz Build. The week-long event, of which Pioneer was the title sponsor, saw 13 new homes built on one street by 2,000 total volunteers – 325 from Pioneer and the rest comprised of other local business 
and organizations. With a nod to the past and a bright future, 
Pioneer looks forward to continuing its longstanding partnership in transforming communities with 
Dallas Area Habitat for Humanity.While Pioneer’s relationship with the Midland Area Habitat for Humanity is newer, our West Texas employees are no less dedicated to this wonderful cause that helps transform communities in their local region. In 2017, the company contributed $75,000 to fund the building of a new home, 
ultimately built by our employees, through 
the organization.Through our longstanding partnership with Habitat 
for Humanity, Pioneer has 
donated more than 
$3.5 million, built 20 new homes and made repairs on 
28 other homes since 2006.  WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT39Pioneer 20th Anniversary Celebration
In honor of Pioneer’s 20 years of commitment to the communities in which we live and operate, the company gave $200,000 in grants to the local charitable organizations that are most important to our employees. Employees voted on which local organizations would each receive a grant in the amount of either $5,000 or $10,000. 
Categories of recipient organizations 
included women and children’s shelters, military support, 
medical research, animal shelters, and other worthy causes.  United Way:  United Way chapters across 
the country invest in improving the education, 
financial stability and health of families and 
individuals in targeted communities by working closely with local non-profit agencies for the greatest impact. The organization empowers 
residents to reach out and help their neighbors 
in need, and it has inspired Pioneer employees 
to do the same.Employees give generously, and the company matches every dollar employees pledge and 
raise for an even greater donation to United Way chapters. In the Dallas area, Pioneer and 
its Irving-based employees have donated $4.3 million to United Way since 2005. Our employees not only give to the United Way on an individual level, but they also organize creative fundraising events, such as the Pioneer 101 food-car race and a Pioneer poker tournament. Our partnership with United Way extends to our west Texas communities as well. In 2017, Permian-based Pioneer employees, in conjunction with the company match, contributed more than $154,000 to the Midland United Way. Together, United Way and Pioneer work to create positive, perceptible change in their communities while improving the lives of others. Dallas CASA:  Pioneer is a strong supporter of Dallas CASA (Court Appointed Special 
Advocates) and its conviction that all children have the right to be safe. Founded in 1980, 
Dallas CASA is now the largest CASA program 
in Texas. Judges appoint Dallas CASA volunteers to advocate for the best interests of abused and neglected children, helping these children gain safe, permanent homes as quickly as possible. Dallas CASA exists so that abused and neglected children in protective care have the chance to become successful adults. In 2017, Dallas CASA served more than 3,100 
children with nearly 1,300 volunteer advocates, 
including many of our own Pioneer employees and their spouses. Still, the year ended with more than one out of four children left to navigate through the complex child welfare system without a CASA volunteer, reinforcing the resolve of Pioneer and Dallas CASA to serve each and every child in need. Pioneer, together with Goldman Sachs and AT&T, co-hosts the annual Dallas CASA Classic invitational 
golf tournament. The tournament is now the 
highest grossing non-PGA, one-day charity
tournament in Texas. In 2017, the Dallas CASA Classic raised a record-breaking $2 million, 
bringing the total amount raised by the tournament since its inception to $16.2 million. According 
to Kathleen LaValle, Dallas CASA Executive Director/President, the organization “would not have been able to embark on this tremendous and exciting growth plan without the Dallas CASA Classic and the incredible corporate partners we have in Pioneer, Goldman Sachs and AT&T. This tournament has brought hope and support directly to thousands of Dallas-area children living in 
protective care.” In addition to co-hosting the Dallas CASA 
Classic, Pioneer supports the organization through sponsorships of other local events, including the Parade of Playhouses, where generous architects, builders, organizations, corporations and 
individuals design, build and donate extraordinary children’s playhouses to raise funds so that 
Dallas CASA can recruit and train more 
volunteer advocates.Since 2005, Pioneer and 
its Irving-based employees have donated $4.3 million 
to United Way.WORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENTWORKPLACE INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT4143Dallas CASA
$2 Million in 10 years!
For Pioneer and Dallas CASA, 
2017 concluded an exciting four-year, $1 million capital campaign commitment! Taking it one step further, Pioneer pledged $350,000 in honor of our 10-year relationship with Dallas CASA and our employees contributed generously, bringing our total contributions to $2 million. Pioneer is proud of our commitment to this worthy organization, knowing that these funds have made it possible 
for Dallas CASA to serve a far greater number of abused children who desperately need the powerful advocacy and the constant, caring “lifeline” connection CASA 
volunteers provide. The Arts: The Dallas Theater Center (DTC), one of the leading regional theaters in the country, was the recipient of the 2017 Regional Theatre Tony Award. DTC performs to an audience of more than 80,000 Dallas-area residents annually, and is known for its original works, beloved 
classics, and community arts education programs.Project Discovery, Dallas Theater Center’s 
signature education program, provides in-depth theater experiences for thousands of at-risk teens from 30 North Texas high schools. Dallas Theater Center provides this program at no charge. In 2017, Pioneer completed a four-year $250,000 capital campaign to allow the DTC to continue implementing its successful community programs. 
Youth and Education:  Contributing to youth and education initiatives is also a priority for the company. As a strong advocate for academic enrichment in all our operating areas, Pioneer encourages education in young adults by 
partnering with our employees, local communities, and community colleges and universities, through both small and large programs. In 2017, Pioneer contributed more than $1.8 million to youth and education initiatives.Throughout the years, Pioneer has forged a strong partnership with the Midland Independent School District, as well as the increasing number of private schools being established in West Texas, illustrating the company’s ongoing dedication to education in the community. Founded in 1984, the Bynum School is the only private school in the Permian Basin that provides year-round educational programs for children 
and adults with disabilities. The school relies on charitable donations and proceeds from fundraising activities to supplement tuition. Pioneer proudly pledged $1 million over four years to help the school meet their fundraising goal to construct 
a much-needed new, state-of-the-art facility. According to the school’s website, this facility will be a “modern, efficient, flexible, age-appropriate, accessible, safe, productive space where individuals of all ages with special needs can learn, work, and play.” With the support of Pioneer and other West Texas community partners, the facility is set to open in 2018.Located on the campus of Midland College, Early College High School (ECHS) is an innovative collaboration between the Midland Independent School District and Midland College to provide students with the opportunity and support 
necessary to obtain a high school diploma and an associates degree in just four years. The majority of students come from underserved minority and low-income communities where many of ECHS’s potential first-generation college students lack the support network to pursue a college education. ECHS’s attendance rate has been the highest in the district every year since its inception in 2009. Pioneer has been a major sponsor since 2012, 
contributing nearly $1.5 million during that time. ECHS has become the standard for academic excellence in the Midland Independent School District and the surrounding communities. In 2017, Pioneer 
contributed more than 
$1.8 million to youth and 
education initiatives.  