Water ManagementWater-related 
Risk ManagementThe availability of water allows us to complete horizontal wells through hydraulic fracturing, which is critical to Pioneer and the oil and gas industry. Water shortages, including physical water scarcity and demand issues in the arid West Texas region where we operate, have the potential to significantly affect our operations. 
In 2012, we recognized the increasing demand for limited Permian Basin groundwater 
resources presented future water-related risks in our operations. We proactively established Pioneer Water Management LLC (PWM), a subsidiary company tasked with providing substantial water management capabilities, improving our water-sourcing operations, and researching regional water resources and treatment technologies. We have been able to strategically secure exclusive, long-term, non-freshwater sources ahead of our industry peers. Additionally, PWM manages the produced water generated during hydrocarbon production and provides Pioneer a comprehensive, full-cycle water management strategy.WATER MANAGEMENT33Midland Water Treatment Facility Site RenderingComprehensively addressing water-related risks and improving water conservation by:In addition to PWM’s responsibilities, Pioneer field experts in water conservation, groundwater protection, and local and regional geology and hydrogeology study our regional water resources. We have also field-proven various treatment 
technologies and, if needed, have the technical ability to generate varying levels of water qualities based on operational needs, including highly 
clarified freshwater from non-fresh sources. Strategic FlexibilityUtilizing brackish groundwater, reclaimed water and recycled produced water has ultimately 
provided more substantial and sustainable 
alternatives. Diverse water sourcing provides
operational flexibility that has proven to deliver value throughout our operations. Additionally, 
we have achieved security in our water supply 
by obtaining long-term rights to strategic 
sources and developing a robust produced-water recycling program across Pioneer operations.
Commensurate with our acreage position and long-term activity, PWM infrastructure delivers tangible cost reductions and strategic flexibility for Pioneer development plans. Produced-water recycling and reclaimed water are our main areas of focus. The economy of scale and process advancements to recycle produced water in our operations have significantly reduced costs to the point that it is both our most environmentally and economically sustainable water source. Reclaimed water capitalizes on our mainline distribution 
infrastructure to transport our treated municipal 
wastewater to wherever it is needed throughout 
our operations.
Some operators have achieved commendable recycling percentages and freshwater reductions in local areas. We have also demonstrated reliable performance at a local level and have provided examples in the following sections. However, 
Pioneer’s differentiating infrastructure scale 
supports development across our operations, continuous operational demand in high volumes, flexible development plan optimization and the maintenance of stable price points.Freshwater Use ReductionsWe continue to drive continued innovation in non-freshwater use, increase mitigation of 
water-related risk, accelerate management of 
climate-related risks in our assets and provide transparency to our stakeholders.
Freshwater Reduction Action PlanPioneer understands the importance of freshwater 
scarcity and minimizes its use. Our freshwater 
reductions are supported by our action plan to:  • Minimize surface water resources in our 
    operations (Note: Surface water is not part of 
    our Permian water strategy.)  • Continuously monitor our production and 
     consumption of groundwater   • Maximize non-fresh, effluent and recycled 
     water resources in our operations Pioneer established a water strategy to maximize non-freshwater resources in 2015. In that year, 
Pioneer consumed 9.1 million cubic meters of 
freshwater, which accounted for 82 percent of our annual water consumption. We have since reduced the relative percentage of freshwater consumption by 47 percent. We continue to optimize completion designs and understand how these factors drive 
our water consumption needs. 
Specified in the chart on p. 37, and detailed below, are the four water sources we utilize in our operations. Each type of water is prioritized based on a tiering system, with Tier 1 representing the highest sourcing 
priority after considering our commitments to limited utilization of freshwater, cost and efficiency of operations, and the parameters of the PWM distribution system.WATER MANAGEMENT35Pioneer’s Water Distribution SystemWATER MANAGEMENT36Maximizing Water ResourcesPioneer has tested and utilized multiple technologies for recycling water, ranging from desalination 
to minimal treatment techniques. As hydraulic fracturing technology has improved, the treatment and water quality requirements have changed from requiring freshwater to the now-possible use of 100 percent recycled water. Pioneer has completed wells with 100 percent recycled produced water. In 2019, 100 percent of the water sourced for use in hydraulic fracturing within our Texas Ten area came from non-freshwater resources. The Texas Ten area accounted for approximately 15 percent of Pioneer annual completion activity last year. This area also generated non-freshwater volumes above local needs, which allowed PWM to 
distribute them to other Pioneer operations. 
Through the lessons learned, Pioneer has chosen a process for treatment that is both cost-effective, achieves our production and sustainability goals, and works within the storage and transportation requirements of our mainline distribution system. 
Recycled Water: Tier 1Recycled water, also referred to as treated 
produced water, is naturally occurring water extracted through the production process that is then processed for storage and use in hydraulic fracturing. Produced water is generally a mixture of water, naturally occurring dissolved solids, and a small number of products used in the oil and gas production process. Like brackish water, produced water is a very high-salinity water source. Advanced hydraulic fracturing technology and water processing methods have allowed produced water to become a viable alternative water source. As a Tier 1 source, recycled water will continue to grow as water 
demand increases. 

Consumption of recycled water in our operations increased approximately 280 percent, as a percentage 
of total volume, from 2018 to 2019. Although 
drilling and completions activity dramatically 
decreased in 2020, Pioneer is still forecasting growth in recycled water consumption. As recycled water plays a role in both eliminating produced water disposal and supplying water for completions activities, it will continue to be prioritized as a source in future years. Systematic tracking and forecasting is in place for baseload produced 
water availability at the local level, as well as 
various future development scenarios. In 2019, Pioneer recycled nearly 17 percent of our total horizontal well produced water production. 
Recycled and Produced Water ManagementThe careful handling, storage, use and disposal 
of produced water presents opportunities for resource efficiency and increased management 
of operational risks to Pioneer. To manage these risks, Pioneer strives to reduce untreated 
produced water handling times. Produced water that is not allocated for treatment and recycling is transported to a saltwater disposal facility for underground injection. (Pioneer utilizes our own facilities for the majority of our needed injection disposal.) These facilities are required to follow stringent regulatory requirements for groundwater protection, maintenance and operational 
controls. Beyond these requirements, Pioneer 


utilizes internal experts, comprehensive data 
sources and an understanding of the subsurface 
environment to support these operations.
Reclaimed Municipal Water: Tier 2Reclaimed water is treated effluent water 
(municipal wastewater) that is specifically 
authorized for reuse by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ). As a Tier 2 source, reclaimed water is both cost-effective 
and reliable. Brackish Water: Tier 3Brackish water reservoirs that contain water too high in salinity (greater than 3,000 mg/L TDS) 
for drinking or agricultural use are an important oil and gas water resource in the Permian Basin. As a Tier 3 resource, brackish water reservoirs will continue to contribute to Pioneer’s water portfolio and freshwater reductions. We have conducted WATER MANAGEMENT37Produced Water RecyclingWATER MANAGEMENT38Innovation Infrastructure: The Midland Water ProjectIn June 2018, Pioneer and the city of Midland, Texas, initiated construction on an innovative infrastructure project: the upgrade of the city’s wastewater treatment facility with the goal of using the resulting reclaimed water in Pioneer completion operations. Pioneer is making a $134 million investment in the city’s critical infrastructure in return for approximately two billion barrels 
of non-freshwater within a 28-year contract period (with an option to extend). The plant upgrades were designed to 
accommodate a projected future volume increase of up to 357,000 barrels of treated municipal wastewater per day. 
The Midland project is scheduled for completion by Q1 2021, with first flow of water to be determined by Pioneer activity. 
The Midland project will expand Pioneer’s exclusive water rights for treated municipal wastewater, joining our existing purchases already established by contract with the City of Odessa. 
Securing a large supply of non-freshwater for our operations is 
a key component of our strategy to reduce use of freshwater. 
These innovative, industry-leading water projects developed 
by our Pioneer subsidiary PWM mutually benefit both Pioneer and the cities important to our operations by enhancing critical local infrastructure while sustainably providing Pioneer with 
billions of barrels of non-freshwater for use in our operations. 
In addition, this reduces demand for freshwater in a drought-prone area, curtails water transport trucking and industrial traffic in a congested region, and compensates the cities for wastewater, providing a newfound revenue stream that otherwise would not exist.WATER MANAGEMENT39Minimizing FreshwaterThe TRRC provides Groundwater Protection 
Determinations for an oil and gas operator’s 
surface casing, underground injection and other underground activities. The Groundwater 
Protection Determination process identifies freshwater used in drilling operations by quality standards associated with possible freshwater zones (generally less than 1,000 mg/L TDS) and usable-quality water (typically 3,000 mg/L TDS or less). As detailed in the table below, Pioneer operationally defines freshwater as water sourced from underground aquifers containing less than 3,000 mg/L TDS. 
As a pure-play operator, much of the water 
available for agricultural and other local consumption, including desalination, is higher than 1,000 mg/L TDS. We have selected this more conservative threshold for freshwater because it is a more 
relevant standard for the Permian Basin. We intend for this threshold to reduce groundwater withdrawal that competes with local consumption needs and is consistent with the TRRC groundwater protection process. It is important to broaden the definition to include usable-quality water to account for local uses in drought-prone and water-stressed areas, particularly over the long term. 
Based on Pioneer’s comprehensive definition of freshwater, as specified below, the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas shows that, in 2019, 54 percent of freshwater sourced was within areas of high or extremely high Baseline Water Stress. Water wells within areas of low-to-medium Baseline Water Stress accounted for the remaining 46 percent. Further evaluation, referencing World Resources Institute’s Overall Water Risk weighting for the oil and gas industry, indicates that areas of high or extremely high overall groundwater risk are not present within our operational footprint.
With our approach to respect local water use 
and a meaningful action plan, our goal is to achieve the most effective freshwater strategy 
in the U.S. oil and gas industry.
Note on Freshwater Comparability: Our freshwater definition differs from other freshwater use disclosures and international standards, which typically range from less than 1,000 mg/L TDS or less than 2,000 mg/L TDS. Pioneer freshwater volumes/intensities are not directly comparable, due to our 3,000 mg/L TDS threshold. 
Additional water use metrics are provided in the figure above and in our Sustainability Performance Data Table.
Groundwater ProtectionPioneer designs, builds and maintains its wells 
to protect groundwater quality and meet strict 
regulatory requirements. Pioneer proactively 
minimizes the possibility of groundwater impact through our highly regulated casing and cement designs, safety and monitoring systems, and 
thousands of feet of rock between the hydrocarbon and freshwater zones. Texas regulations require all wells be drilled using freshwater prior to reaching the base of protected groundwater and be protected with additional casing and cement barriers. Ensuring the mechanical integrity of wellbore casings is a longstanding regulatory requirement for groundwater protection. Pioneer performs mechanical integrity testing, as prescribed by the TRRC, throughout the well’s production life cycle. In accordance with industry standards and best practices, we tested the surface casing integrity on all wells drilled in 2019. In addition to the traditional well-integrity testing of a completed wellbore, Pioneer also conducts formation integrity testing – an industry-leading best practice check on well integrity. The process begins after isolating usable groundwater zones from the well operations by 1) setting three layers of protective casing below usable 
groundwater resources; 2) circulating cement between the steel casings; and 3) injecting cement between the outer casing and the rock formation. The cement is allowed to set before the start of the formation integrity test. The wellbore is pressurized and monitored to verify groundwater isolation and protection. Once confirmed, the drilling operation proceeds to a total depth where we perform a 
typical mechanical integrity test.
During the well-completion process, Pioneer installs pressure gauges to monitor and test the annular space between the inner and outer well casing. Completions equipment on the surface provides redundant protections against over-pressuring the wellbore during completion operations. In 2019, 
100 percent of Pioneer’s completed wells were 
tested in this manner. 
Once our wells move to the production phase, 
we actively manage well integrity with corrosion countermeasures through a cathodic protection program. Pioneer engineers remotely monitor 
production well-casing pressures via our SCADA system for their assigned wells. Periodic well-integrity tests are also mandated by TRRC for all Pioneer wells. Issues identified through active operational monitoring or regulatory-mandated tests are 
resolved through standard procedures and in 
coordination with the TRRC. Wells may then 
be included in an active monitoring program, 
on a case-by-case basis, to verify continued casing 
integrity. Future wells will continue to be 
monitored, managed and tested in these ways.The Importance of Properly Defining Freshwater in the Permian BasinWATER MANAGEMENT41WATER MANAGEMENT42Chemical Use ReductionsPioneer has reduced the absolute chemical mass percent in our hydraulic fracturing fluids by 66 percent since 2017, while the number of annual well completions has increased from 234 to 325 through 2019. While we have reduced the amount of chemicals in our operations, we also now rely on fewer individual chemicals. Using fewer chemicals significantly improves logistical management and reduces opportunities for chemical-handling incidents to occur. Innovations in well completions fluid designs also impact our freshwater reduction efforts and have resulted in a 42 percent reduction in the amount of freshwater used relative to total water from 2014 to 2019.We also have upgraded all drill rig shakers (a drill cuttings liquid removal system) to a higher grade to gain efficiencies in circulation and fluid retention, which means that we recycle more fluid throughout the drilling process, providing notable material and capital savings. Additional metrics are provided in our Sustainability Performance Data Table.

Induced Seismicity
Abundant research has shown that seismic 
monitoring and active management of produced water disposal are the best tools for avoiding induced seismicity. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) Earthquake Hazards Program 
and Texas’ TexNet Seismic Monitoring Program monitor seismicity across Texas. TexNet is 
comprised of permanent and temporary earthquake-
sensing seismometer arrays across the state of Texas, which are used to understand statewide earthquakes and earthquake-related risks better. This resource provides an independent and 
comprehensive tool to monitor Texas earthquakes. As of this report, no felt events in the USGS or TexNet earthquake catalogs have been located beneath our operations.
Pioneer takes an active and scientifically driven approach toward monitoring, understanding 
and addressing any seismicity issue that may potentially arise. Since 2017, Pioneer has conducted internal 
monitoring of seismicity through a permanently 
deployed network of monitoring sensors in the Midland 
Basin. Our scientists have regularly engaged with state 
regulators and industry groups to address seismicity 
concerns. Pioneer also contributes to leading seismological 
research at the Stanford Center for Induced and 

Triggered Seismicity and the University of Texas 
Center for Induced Seismicity Research. Pioneer plays a leadership role in understanding and managing induced seismicity risks through scientific analysis, operational planning, and in our collaborative approach with regulators and researchers.
Pioneer complies with applicable federal and state 
regulations on underground injection control. 
These requirements include injection rate and 
pressure monitoring, pressure testing, and 
mechanical integrity testing. Using the latest 
science and taking advantage of our extensive 
subsurface data set to improve our operational knowledge, Pioneer incorporates seismicity risk 
analysis in the siting of both our production and saltwater disposal well locations..WATER MANAGEMENT43WATER MANAGEMENT44LEED Gold Headquarters During 2020, Pioneer moved to a new corporate headquarters identified as a LEED Gold-awarded BD+C New Construction facility. To receive LEED Gold certification, 
the development was evaluated in six areas: sustainable sites, water efficiency, energy 
and atmosphere, indoor environmental quality, regional priority, and innovation in 
design. The following are some of the sustainable strategies integrated into the 
new headquarters:  • The campus was designed to amplify the land’s natural surroundings, 
     so employees can enjoy the outdoor environment.   • Rainfall and surface-water runoff is filtered on-site to improve storm 
     water quality.  • The original mesquite forests and other native landscapes were retained.  • More than 90 percent of the occupied interior areas have direct views 
     to the outside.  • 98 percent of the waste generated from the building’s construction 
     was sorted and recycled. Pioneer participates in a long-term lease of the building, allowing us to 
protect our balance sheet while enjoying the many sustainable features 
and benefits of a LEED Gold-certified building.Landscape StewardshipBiodiversity ConservationPioneer teams engage with federal, state 
and local government organizations and 
regulators; partner with researchers, consultants and universities; and source and explore new technologies to apply progressive solutions to protect habitats and species. Promoting conservation methods and strategies mitigates environmental impacts and biodiversity risks 
in our operations.
For years, we have taken stewardship lessons learned from our former operations in Alaska, Colorado, Canada and offshore, applying them to the Permian Basin. We use our 
broad experience to provide environmentally responsible solutions.
Although endangered species could potentially affect our ability to operate in certain areas, Pioneer continues to protect threatened and endangered species by:  • Using a four-tiered mitigation hierarchy:         1) Avoid, 2) Minimize, 
         3) Restore and 4) Offset   • Utilizing candidate conservation 
     agreements with assurances   • Prioritizing sand sourcing from operators 
     outside of known areas of habitat concern   • Working to avoid surface water resourcesLANDSCAPE STEWARDSHIP47Mitigation HierarchyAvoidOur approach and overall strategy for biodiversity during the development of drilling locations, well pads and associated tank batteries is avoidance. We begin each project with a desktop analysis of the development location and surrounding area. Wherever possible, we first look to expand or utilize existing pads to limit our footprint through avoidance. The desktop analysis includes 
georeferenced aerial photography, surface 
contour maps, 100-year floodplain boundaries, potential U.S. jurisdictional rivers and streams, 
National Wetland Inventory potential wetlands, and lesser prairie chicken habitat. Additional 
sensitive habitat areas within our operational 
footprint will be included, if designated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 
If initial analyses suggest that potential features of concern are within our area of interest, qualified third-party consulting firms are employed to conduct further studies. These studies include thorough assessments, recommendations and guidance on site development. The pertinent information is used to develop detailed, site-
specific construction plans outside of jurisdictional areas, sensitive habitats and high drainage areas, where possible. During construction, features of potential concern that exist in the near vicinity are clearly marked to safeguard them from alteration and harm. 
MinimizeIf ecological features are unavoidable, we will revise our strategy and work alongside applicable local, state and federal governments to obtain all necessary permits. We take the necessary steps to develop and administer appropriate mitigation measures 
to minimize or offset any potential impacts 
associated with our disturbance and activity.
Reducing Our FootprintAs Pioneer operations grow in the Permian Basin, our most sustainable development practices allow us to drill many more wells on the same well pad we formerly drilled three wells. Multi-well pads present opportunities to mitigate risks and impacts, while supporting our overall ESG strategies and goals. Needing only one quarter of an acre per well translates to, in some cases, more than 80 percent reduction in surface impacts. Decreasing the area of impact by pad construction and reducing the need for additional roadways limits surface impact and habitat fragmentation.Wildlife Mitigation PlanningPWM uses several measures to protect wildlife, including siting decisions, preconstruction 
reconnaissance and wildlife impact avoidance measures. In 2018, PWM developed and 
implemented a Wildlife Mitigation Plan to outline additional mitigation actions to support PWM’s overall mission to ensure continued environmental stewardship. Under the mitigation plan, observations made in the field drive corrective measures, 
including the training to recognize wildlife issues and respond appropriately. Wildlife observations during inspections are logged to monitor wildlife presence and changes over time. All workers 
and contractors are trained in or informed of 
the following:  • Identification of species of interest  • Who to contact when a wildlife issue is observed  • Prohibited actions, including the harassment/
     collection of any wildlife  • Limiting or eliminating unnecessary lights  • PWM-established rules on speed limits and 
    designated smoking areasThe Wildlife Mitigation Plan allows our employees to use an adaptive management approach to make informed decisions on wildlife observations.
RestoreOur Drilling and Construction group utilizes native seed mixes to reclaim surface land where possible. 
In 2019, Pioneer worked with Texas A&M Kingsville to collect ecologically representative native seeds from large areas in which we are the surface landowner. From these areas, they were able to identify four distinct native seed mixes that would be applicable across our operational area. Native seeding offers many ecological benefits to pollinators and West Texas grassland species.LANDSCAPE STEWARDSHIP49We are studying how to achieve an optimal number of wells per pad to accommodate needed well spacing, reduced surface impact and capital efficiency considerations. This approach allows us to maximize the resource potential beneath the surface, while decreasing the magnitude of surface risks and impacts such as these:LANDSCAPE STEWARDSHIP50Texas Horned LizardLesser Prairie ChickenWestern Grassland ConservationOffset Conservation and Mitigation Actions The states of New Mexico, Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas are home to the lesser 
prairie chicken and its habitat. The Western 
Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, an 
association of 24 U.S. States and Canadian 
Provinces, formed a partnership of the five lesser prairie chicken states’ respective wildlife management agencies, and, together with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and partners from multiple 
industries, created a Range-wide Conservation Plan for the lesser prairie chicken. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service-endorsed Conservation Plan outlines the grouse species’ needs in the five states’ habitats. As a result, oil and gas industry members adopted the Conservation Plan and jumpstarted conservation efforts with over 
$65 million in initial conservation enrollments. 
Pioneer was a founding contributor to the 
Candidate Conservation Agreement with 
Assurances (CCAA) for the pre-listing conservation of the lesser prairie chicken. By working under 
the CCAA, we can assess the siting of projects 
and select locations that minimize or completely avoid impact. In areas where we cannot avoid 
habitat impact, the CCAA program allows Pioneer to generate habitat impact offsets while maintaining predictability in our development plans and 
promoting lesser prairie chicken conservation. For additional information on WAFWA 
and lesser prairie chicken conservation, 
visit www.WAFWA.org VIDEO: WESTERN ASSOCIATION 
OF FISH AND WILDLIFE AGENCIES Waste Management Waste reduction is an important goal for any company. Pioneer strives to minimize all wastes, including hazardous waste, by eliminating or reducing identified waste streams. We continually improve reuse and recycling and decrease 
disposal in landfills. In 2019, Pioneer maintained Very Small Quantity Generators status, the lowest tier of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act for generators of hazardous waste. This 
incredible performance will continue to serve as our goal; however, many operational conditions can impact future waste generation. Spill Prevention  Pioneer believes all spills are preventable. Pioneer designs, builds, and operates our facilities and equipment with spill prevention in mind. We 
invest in containment equipment, conduct 
inspections and remote monitoring, and comply 
with spill preparedness and response regulations. 
We require the internal reporting of all 
environmental incidents, including spills. In the event of a spill, spilled volumes are recovered, where possible, through short-term spill response activities, and properly addressed to meet or exceed regulatory requirements. Our compliance specialists, operations partners and HSE 
committees are dedicated to studying past 
incident findings and identifying operational 
or engineering safeguards that could aid in 
preventing future incidents.  Additionally, Pioneer monitors performance and developing measures to prevent future incidents. We reduce spills throughout Pioneer’s operations by striving to:   • Improve understanding on spill causes    • Establish process for reducing the number 
     and volumes of spills  
  • Promote actions that reduce the company’s 
     environmental footprint    • Instill incident management as a central principle  
    for working at Pioneer. We implement these objectives by:   • Actively managing incidents consistently across 
     the company   • Monitoring environmental incident metrics   • Setting reduction guidance   • Communicating solutions and successful 
     practices throughout the company    • Developing guidelines/procedures for proactive   
     prevention   • Providing monthly briefings of high-risk 
     environmental incidents, root cause investigation    
     findings and recommendations to the HSEC. Since 2018, our hydrocarbon spill performance 
has remained relatively flat. The number of 
hydrocarbon spills has decreased nearly two percent, while the associated spill volumes increased by one percent. We continue to improve the positive trend of spill volume recovery, with a six percent increase in spill volumes recovered. These and other 
metrics are provided in our 2020 Sustainability Performance Data Table.  Spill Prevention through Technology 
Innovation To reduce spills, we have expanded our use of 
data analytics to identify and preemptively respond 
to abnormal storage tank level trending. Data 
received from storage tanks is used for proactive learning on tank conditions and remote operations monitoring. The technology provides early 
detection on potential spill conditions and 
projects the estimated time a tank will reach a specified level, considering the rate of fill and 
historical trend. Using this projection, Pioneer 
can address tanks that are nearing target levels 
or dynamically dispatch operations personnel 
to manage fluid transfers.  