CLIMATE CHANGE STATEMENT AND RESTRICTED CARBON SCENARIO ANALYSISClimate change is an important 
priority for Pioneer and our 
stakeholders. As such, our strategy is to manage our environmental footprint proactively and limit emissions of methane 
and other greenhouse gases from our operations. We are committed 
to working with industry and 
communities to address our impacts to the environment while ensuring the supply of sustainable, abundant and affordable energy. CLIMATE CHANGE STATEMENT AND RESTRICTED CARBON SCENARIO ANALYSIS15In addition to our efforts to limit emissions from our activities, we assess the potential impact of growing alternative energy sources and climate change policy on global fossil fuel demand and Pioneer’s long-term business prospects. A 
summary of this assessment is included below.As part of Pioneer’s strategic planning process, management prepares and reviews with the Board of Directors long-term scenarios under varying assumptions to stress test the company’s business outlook. When evaluating possible 
future business scenarios, Pioneer considers 
several published energy forecasts and 
analyses by leading official agencies such as, 
but not limited to:   • The U.S. Energy Information Administration’s  
     (EIA) International Energy Outlook   • The Organization of Petroleum Exporting 
     Countries’ (OPEC) World Oil Outlook   • The International Energy Agency’s (IEA) 
     World Energy Outlook Pioneer also engages private commodity market analysis firms to provide the company with 
industry and economic projections, which are 
utilized to test management’s assumptions of future business conditions. In 2017, the Permian Basin reached a new 
oil-production record of over 815 million barrels to reaffirm its position as a key energy source for the global market (IHS Markit, 2017). Current 
forecasts and estimates indicate that the resource potential of the Permian Basin will continue to grow. Most recently, the EIA’s 2018 Outlook projects oil growth from around 2.5MM BPD per year to over 4MM BPD by 2030 (EIA, 2018). These rates of production are founded upon the Permian 
Basin’s more than 150 billion barrels of oil 
equivalent of recoverable resources. Moreover, 
as the only major basin where U.S. oil shale 
production continued to grow amidst the 2014 
oil price downturn, the Permian Basin has 
demonstrated its long term productivity (EIA, Drilling Productivity Report, 2017). Pioneer is in a particularly strong position to benefit from the Permian Basin’s quality assets as the largest acreage holder with approximately 750,000 gross acres in the eastern part of the Permian Basin, also known as the Midland Basin. In order to capitalize on this significant resource potential, more than 95 percent of Pioneer’s current and expected future capital expenditures are directed to the Midland Basin, where Pioneer holds more than 20,000 undrilled wells with 
economic returns. The profitability of the Midland Basin is particularly evident when compared with other onshore U.S. liquid-rich basins. As Figure 1 illustrates, the Midland Basin is among the best-in-class with an estimated oil price breakeven cost 
of approximately $26 per barrel as of mid-2018. CLIMATE CHANGE STATEMENT AND RESTRICTED CARBON SCENARIO ANALYSIS16Figure 1 Graphic: Oil Breakevens by BasinSource: Citigroup research report published on 3/26/2018; assumes commodity prices of $50/BBL oil and $3.00/Million British Thermal Units (MMBTU)Additionally, Pioneer is recognized as a leading low-cost operator (including costs to drill, complete and operate the wells), when compared to other North American oil shale players in the industry. (See Figure 2.) Figure 2 Graphic: Oil Breakevens by CompanySource: 2018 Oil & Gas Price Breakeven Analysis and Basin Benchmarking Update, Citi Research, published March 26, 2018 Breakevens reflect each respective company's production-weighted oil assets (at $3MMBTU gas price).Companies include: APC, CDEV, CHK, CLR, CPE, DVN, ECA, HES, MRO, NBL, NFX, OAS, PE, SRCI, WLL, WPX, XEG, XOG.CLIMATE CHANGE STATEMENT AND RESTRICTED CARBON SCENARIO ANALYSIS17Pioneer expects to remain a leading low-cost operator by leveraging the company’s supply chain, vertically integrated services and new technologies to develop its prolific Midland Basin asset highlighted in Figure 3.Figure 3 Graphic: Pioneer Permian Basin AcreageTo assess the potential impact of growing 
alternative sources and climate change policies, Pioneer considered the scenarios set out in the broadly referenced IEA 2017 World Energy 
Outlook (WEO). The World Energy Outlook describes three scenarios, each of which assumes different levels of climate change policy and 
regulation. World Energy Outlook’s Current 
Policies Scenario assumes a continuation of 
existing policies; the New Policies Scenario 
accounts for broad policy commitments and plans that have been announced by countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and phase out fossil fuels. 

In 2016, the WEO introduced the 450 Scenario, 
which constructs an energy consumption 
pathway aiming to limit global increase in 
temperature to 2 degrees Celsius by restricting the concentration of greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere to less than 450 parts per million of carbon dioxide (CO2). In 2017, the WEO 
introduced the new Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) which extends beyond the scope of the 450 Scenario by mapping an energy 
consumption pathway that simultaneously limits global increases in temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius and also achieves universal access to modern energy and cleaner air through the 
reduction of energy-related pollutants. These scenario characteristics reflect an energy landscape aligned with the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement and the objectives of the three United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are most closely related to energy. CLIMATE CHANGE STATEMENT AND RESTRICTED CARBON SCENARIO ANALYSIS18Figure 4 Graphic: Production Potential by Asset – Cumulative Global Breakeven & 2040 Oil Prices Pioneer believes the World Energy Outlook’s 450 Scenario and Sustainable Development Scenario represent ambitious efforts to reduce future global oil demand, and, as such, serve 
as a robust test of the company’s ability to 
efficiently deploy capital and profitably develop and produce its resources in an environment 
of significant demand constraint. Figure 4 depicts the global demand for oil 
in 2040 for each of the 2017 World Energy 
Outlook’s three main scenarios and the likely 
oil sources that would satisfy that demand. 
This analysis assumes the relative volume 
output of basins producing today and that the resources with the lowest available breakeven costs are likely to satisfy demand. Significance of 2040: The benefit of 
assessing potential oil demand and production 
in the year 2040 is that it allows Pioneer, its 
investors, and various stakeholders to evaluate 
the long-term impacts that political, economic, and technological factors might have on oil 
demand over an extended period. Scenario Constraints: The varying global oil demands forecasted in the Sustainable 
Development, New Policies and Current Policies Scenarios are represented by the overlapping square boxes that comprise the backdrop to 
Figure 4. These ranges reflect and correspond 
to the socio-economic and other demand 
parameters outlined by each of the World Energy Outlook’s three scenarios. 
The Sustainable Development Scenario has 
the greatest impact on oil demand since demand declines to 72.9MM bpd and a maximum oil price of $64 USD. Comparatively, the New Policies 
Scenario expects higher oil demand ranging 
between 73MM bpd to 104.9MM bpd. Stronger oil demand supports higher oil prices as suggested by the New Policies Scenario where prices reach up to $111 USD. Finally, the Current Policy 
Scenario results in demand of 118.8MM bpd 
and an oil price reaching $136 USD.  Cost Curve: Overlaying the three World 
Energy Outlook 2040 scenarios shown in 
Figure 4 is a relative cost curve based upon Rystad Energy data that highlights production volumes grouped by current breakeven price 
and geographic region. Each position along the curve represents a 
segment of additional oil production that 
becomes commercially viable in response to 
an increase in price. Using this methodology, 
the lowest cost resources are considered to be developed first; however, it is assumed each region’s respective position on the cost curve 
will remain relative and thus comparable in 
the long term. 
The Pioneer Natural Resources Story: As indicated in Figure 2, the $23/BBL breakeven cost attributed to Pioneer by Citi Research is well within the borders of the Sustainable Development Scenario, indicating the company is in a strong position to produce oil and gas economically and help meet global demand for oil. This assessment is consistent with the June 2018 updated “2 
Degrees of Separation” analysis compiled by The Carbon Tracker Initiative, which examined the oil sector’s economic viability in a carbon-constrained regulatory environment. 
Their analysis found that Pioneer is among the least exposed oil producers to 2025 carbon-related capital expenditures (Carbon Tracker, 2018). The study also notes that companies like Pioneer, which have a relatively low percentage of potential future capital directed to high cost projects, are more aligned with a 2-degree and 1.75-degree warming limit. This reinforces our belief that we are in a strong position to produce oil and gas economically in a carbon-constrained scenario.