LETTER FROM THE CEO It is my pleasure to introduce the inaugural Pioneer Sustainability Report. This report highlights Pioneer Natural Resources’ (Pioneer’s) programs and initiatives that protect the environment; ensure the health, safety and professional development of our employees; promote high standards of integrity and business conduct; and positively impact the communities in which we live and work. These efforts are rooted in the highly regarded core values of our company, governed by our management committee and leaders, and actively overseen by our Board of Directors. Pioneer’s mission is to be America’s leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, environmental stewardship, technology and — our greatest asset — our people. We are committed to helping meet the world’s need for abundant, affordable energy in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. Developing and maintaining sustainable business practices is critical to achieving this mission in the dynamic global energy market. Climate change is an important concern for Pioneer and our stakeholders, and our strategy is to proactively manage our environmental footprint and emissions. We are committed to working with industry and communities to address our impacts to the environment while ensuring the supply of sustainable, abundant and affordable energy. 2016 was a year of accomplishment for the company in a number of important areas. On the environmental front, we advanced the successful build-out of our water management infrastructure in West Texas, continuing to secure supplies of non-potable water to support our drilling and completions operations and reducing our need for fresh water. We also made important strides in reducing air emissions from our operations by incorporating improved standard operating procedures and developing an industry-leading leak detection and repair program. People are important to us. Pioneer is invested in both personal safety on the job and the well-being of our employees and communities. Last year, we concluded our Drive to Zero safety campaign, a three-year program that successfully reduced preventable vehicle accidents, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recordable rates and lost-time incident rates. We then initiated 01. LETTER FROM THE CEO a new program, Safely8760 — the number of hours in a year – to continue making progress and show our commitment to keeping each person safe, every hour of every day of the year. We also instituted a new diversity and inclusion program called One Pioneer and formed several employee resource groups focusing on women’s, veterans’ and multicultural issues, and employee development. Throughout the year, we continued to look for ways to engage and positively impact the communities in which we operate, particularly in the areas of education, social service needs and law enforcement efforts. We also celebrated our 10-year partnership with Dallas Area Habitat for Humanity – restoring and building homes in the historic community of Joppa. And together with the Midland Independent School District, we supported students from Midland’s Early College High School, an innovative program focused on first-generation college students. Our proudest and most gratifying moments came from two media organizations. Forbes named us “the most just” oil and gas company in their inaugural JUST 100 list, which ranks publicly traded companies in America that perform best on the priorities of the American public. In addition, The Dallas Morning News named Pioneer the top place to work among large companies in the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area based on feedback from our employees, our seventh year in the top three. From our Board of Directors to our front-line employees, the people at Pioneer understand the importance of doing business the right way. Operating in a safe, efficient and sustainable manner is critical to our mission of becoming America’s leading independent energy company. We’re proud to share the highlights of our 2016 sustainability efforts, and we are dedicated to making continued progress in the years to come. Sincerely, Timothy L. Dove President and Chief Executive Officer REPORTING PRINCIPLES Pioneer’s Sustainability Report highlights the specific sustainability-related governance and risk management measures we undertake to actively address issues important to both Pioneer and internal and external stakeholders. To more effectively prioritize and manage our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) information, the company formed a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee comprised of executive leadership and subject matter experts from key functions in our organization. The CSR Committee, a subcommittee of the Pioneer Corporate Environmental Committee, reviews and prioritizes sustainability issues relevant to Pioneer and guides the company’s sustainability reporting relative to our peer group and industry. Reporting Framework Our 2016 sustainability report references the reporting standards, terminology, and performance metrics developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, DisclosingTheFacts.org, and International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA). To help stakeholders locate this information, we have indexed relevant GRI, DisclosingTheFacts.org and IPIECA metrics beginning on page 46 of this report. 02. REPORTING PRINCIPLES Reporting Scope The 2016 Pioneer Natural Resources Sustainability Report includes data from January 1, 2016, through December 31, 2016, and is focused on our direct operations as outlined in our 2016 Form 10-K. The topics addressed in this report are those that management believes have the potential to significantly affect the sustainability performance of Pioneer, and their inclusion reflects not only the results of Pioneer’s internal discussions but also our engagement with a number of our stockholders and other stakeholders. Pioneer also considered the guidelines of GRI and other third-party frameworks in determining the content of this report. It is our expectation that the content of our sustainability reporting will change over time as we continue to obtain feedback internally and from stakeholders as to other matters on which disclosure is viewed as important. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY We are a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company operating in the United States, with operations primarily in the Permian Basin in West Texas, the Eagle Ford Shale play in South Texas, the Raton field in southern Colorado and the West Panhandle field in the Texas Panhandle. Pioneer’s mission is to be America’s leading independent energy company, focused on value, safety, environmental stewardship, technology and — our greatest asset — our people. With more than 20,000 drilling locations in the liquids-rich Midland Basin in West Texas, the company has set an ambitious goal of producing 1,000,000 barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) per day by 2027. Continuing to maintain our financial discipline and industry-leading position as a low-cost operator and technology innovator while focused on sustainable development will be critical to reaching this milestone. Our growth plan is primarily anchored by horizontal drilling in the Spraberry/Wolfcamp oil field located in West Texas. Complementing this growth area, we have oil and gas production activities and development and exploration opportunities in the liquid-rich Eagle Ford Shale play located in South Texas, the Raton gas field located in southern Colorado, the West Panhandle gas and liquids field located in the Texas Panhandle and the Edwards gas field located in South Texas. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well-balanced and diversified among oil, natural gas liquids and gas, and that are also well-balanced among long-lived, dependable production and lower-risk exploration and development opportunities. We have a team of dedicated employees who represent the professional disciplines and sciences that we believe are necessary to allow us to maximize the long-term profitability and net asset value inherent in our physical assets. On December 31, 2016, Pioneer had 3,604 employees, 1,343 of whom were employed in field and plant operations, and 947 of whom were employed by our pumping services, well services and sand mining subsidiary companies. 03. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY Pioneer at a Glance NET PRODUCING WELLS ˜YEAR END  CORPORATE H.Q.:  IRVING, TEXAS       EMPLOYEES:  ~, Governance Pioneer has developed sound governance practices, described in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, to guide the company’s Board of Directors in fulfilling their duty to stockholders. A portion of the Board’s oversight includes the company’s assessment of major risks and the resulting measures taken to manage such risks, including those related to sustainable development — a multidisciplinary approach that balances economic growth, environmental stewardship and social responsibility. 03. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY Pioneer Board of Directors The Pioneer Board includes two committees with corporate sustainability oversight: Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Committee: The HSE Committee oversees broad company health, safety, and environmental practices, monitoring management’s efforts to continually develop our culture of safety, stewardship, and environmental protection. Made up of independent directors, the HSE Committee is responsible for: • Monitoring management efforts to create a culture of continuous improvement in Pioneer’s safety and environmental protection practices. • Reviewing both performance and goals for Pioneer’s health, safety and environmental programs on a quarterly basis. 03. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY • Overseeing current and emerging HSE issues potentially affecting Pioneer, including trends in legislation and proposed regulations. • Reporting to the full Pioneer Board of Directors on health, safety and environmental matters at least once per year. • Providing oversight to company management regarding the health, safety and environmental aspects of the company’s sustainable development program, including sustainability reporting. Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee: The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees risks related to governance structures and processes, including Board and committee composition and succession planning; director independence; and Pioneer charitable contributions, political spending and lobbying activities. The detailed responsibilities for each committee are outlined in their respective Committee Charters. Building on the Board of Directors’ active oversight role, employees in leadership and management administer and execute Pioneer’s strategy, guided by the specific standards of conduct prescribed in our Core Values and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. To ensure the right combination of executive, technical and field staff are engaged in this important work, the company formed several cross-functional committees, including the Pioneer Corporate Safety Committee, the Pioneer Corporate Environmental Committee and the Pioneer Public Policy Engagement Committee. These committees ensure Pioneer manages sustainability issues effectively and consistently across the company and conducts monthly reviews of HSE performance, including current and emerging HSE issues and continuous improvement. The Board committees with corporate sustainability oversight, together with management, monitor information from a variety of sources, including employees, investors, key stakeholders and industry organizations, and monitor management’s efforts to identify and prioritize the sustainability information we disclose to the public via www.pxd.com, our financial disclosures (SEC Filings and Annual Reports) and, beginning this year, our Sustainability Report. This report and the company’s other disclosures will continue to evolve as Pioneer’s leadership analyzes and responds to feedback from both internal and external stakeholders. 03. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY Commitment to Ethical Operations Pioneer has an unwavering commitment to ethics and integrity. This responsibility upholds the law and exhibits our strong pledge when it comes to honesty, transparency, and fair and ethical business dealings. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics represents the standards of integrity and business conduct that every Pioneer employee, officer and director must uphold and follow. As a means of protecting both our company and our employees, Pioneer supports multiple methods of reporting compliance concerns, including anonymous reporting, and we strictly prohibit retaliation against any person for providing truthful information relating to a possible violation of law or company policy. 03. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGY Core (RESPECT) Values Achieving our mission requires that we stay true to our Core Values, the basic principles that are the foundation on which Pioneer has been built: 