GovernancePioneer governance practices 
are described in our Corporate Governance Guidelines. 
The Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s 
assessment of major risks, 
including those related to 
sustainable development 
and the measures taken to 
manage such risks. 
Pioneer views sustainable development as a 
multidisciplinary approach to our business, 
balancing economic growth, environmental 
stewardship and social responsibility. In addition, 
the Board takes an active role in the design 
and implementation of Pioneer’s ESG strategy, while working with management to cultivate 
our HSE culture. COMPANY OVERVIEW AND CORPORATE STRATEGYGOVERNANCE0707Board of Directors ESG OversightTo view detailed responsibilities for each committee go to PXD.com > Culture > Governance or our 
2020 Proxy Statement.The Board includes the following five committees with corporate ESG or sustainability oversight:Board of DirectorsBoard HSE Committee: The committee oversees broad company HSE and sustainability practices, including:  • Management efforts to create a culture of safety 
     and environmental protection   • Review and approval of Pioneer HSE goals  • Periodic performance improvement progress   
     reports In addition to providing oversight of our HSE practices, the committee members periodically visit Pioneer operational facilities and speak with employees, learning firsthand about Pioneer field operations and what our Board members can do to better support HSE initiatives. Additional 
committee actions relevant to ESG include:  • Providing oversight for Pioneer HSE 
    management systems, including processes to     monitor compliance with applicable legal and  
    regulatory requirements  • Monitoring management efforts to create a 
    culture of continuous improvement in the 
    company’s safety and environmental protection  
    practices    • Reviewing/approving the company’s HSE goals      
     and monitoring performance toward those goals,
     including evaluation of compensation awards 
     based on performance  • Reviewing the management of current and      emerging HSE and climate change-related issues,   
     including trends in legislation and proposed 
     regulations that would affect the company  • Making regular reports to the Board about the 
    committee’s activities and decisions  • Receiving reports from management and 
     providing oversight for the HSE aspects of 
     Pioneer sustainable development programs  • Periodically receiving reports from management 
    on corporate security activities undertaken in 
    support of field safety practices  • Providing policy oversight with respect to risk   
     assessment and risk management arising out of 
     the company’s HSE practices, including related   
     operational cybersecurity risks (for example, 
     field automation and communication systems)
In the event the committee chooses to recruit potential nominees to join the Board, the company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that, in addition to considering a candidate’s skills and experience, the committee will consider factors like diversity, differences in viewpoints, background, education, gender, race or ethnicity, age, and other individual qualifications and attributes. The committee will use its best efforts to include qualified candidates 
in the pool from which the committee selects director candidates and will instruct any third-party firms 
assisting the search to include candidates with 
diverse characteristics.Board demographic information for the past three years is included in the Social Impacts sections of this report and in our 2020 Sustainability Performance Data Table.
Executive ESG LeadershipManagement CommitteeSustainability starts with solid governance and committed leadership. The Pioneer Management Committee includes the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and twelve other executive officers. This core leadership team is responsible for establishing and executing the company’s strategy as overseen by the Board, including 
assessment of climate-related risks and 
opportunities. A key function of the Management Committee is annual HSE and ESG goal 
performance reviews. Consistent with all 
Pioneer employees, members of the Management Committee have financial incentives, through our annual bonus program, to focus on continuous improvements in the areas of health and safety, air emissions, and climate issues. During annual goal setting, management defines, with input and approval from the Board, measures of success for each goal to objectively evaluate performance.

This proactive, incentive-based approach focuses the organization on key HSE and ESG goals that ultimately position the company to achieve its long-term objectives and targets.
ESG Task ForceEstablished in 2020, the ESG Task Force comprises a subset of the Management Committee and other officers and key leaders from various disciplines across the company. Pioneer’s ESG Task Force is responsible for shaping our long-term ESG strategy and overseeing Pioneer corporate ESG goals and related reporting. The Task Force ensures project 
resources are available and provides strategic direction and expert advice, including the review and approval of Sustainability Report content and related publications. 
ESG Task Force meetings occur monthly, or as needed. The immediate priority of the Task Force was implementing the following goals and aligning Pioneer ESG disclosures with stakeholder 
expectations of industry-leading practices, including:   • Ensuring accuracy of data collection and reporting 
     of key ESG measures, particularly for GHG 
     emissions (and its constituent parts)   • Establishing long-term quantitative emission 
     intensity targets on GHG, methane and flaring 
     intensity  • Driving strategic and operational activities in 
     the company to position Pioneer to meet its   
     long-term ESG continuous improvement targets   • Aligning Pioneer risk management and     decision-making processes with TCFD and  
    SASB principles   • Facilitating additional Board ESG oversight   • Enhancing key Pioneer ESG policies:          • Adopting a formal Human Rights Policy 
            and Commitment consistent with 
            international guidelines          • Updating diversity and inclusion policies           • Updating formal HSE Policy and Commitment          • Updating formal anti-corruption and ethics     
             policies  • Commissioning and completing an internal audit   
     review of the 2020 Sustainability ReportGOVERNANCE0909Nominating and Corporate 
Governance CommitteeThe Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee oversees risks related to governance structures and processes, including Board 
and committee composition and succession 
planning; director independence; and Pioneer charitable contributions, political spending 
and lobbying activities. 
Formalized ESG Responsibilities  • The committee assists the Board in identifying,  
    evaluating, and monitoring social, governance,    
    political, human rights and public policy trends,   
    issues, and concerns, along with other sustainability   
    and corporate responsibility matters that could    
    affect the business and reputation of Pioneer,    
    including climate change-related risks and 
    opportunities. Information is reported to the     
    Board for consideration and potential adoption 
    of recommended actions.
Charitable contributions, political spending and lobbying activities  • The committee provides oversight of Pioneer     
    charitable contributions, political spending 
    and lobbying activities. Oversight includes 
    receiving reports annually (or more frequently) 
    on Pioneer charitable contributions, political 
    and lobbying spending, and company-related     
    political action committees.
Related-Party Transactions Oversight  • The committee, comprised of independent 
     Directors, must approve, ratify or reject 
     related-party transactions.  
Compensation and Leadership 
Development CommitteeThe Compensation and Leadership Development Committee has oversight of our human capital management, including:  • Pioneer talent development strategies and 
    activities for executive officers and key executives  
• Strategies, initiatives and programs relative 
     to our company culture, talent recruitment, 
     development and retention, employee 
     engagement, and diversity and inclusion  • General health and welfare benefits  • Within executive leadership’s annual bonus 
     program, the weighting of HSE and ESG      performance indicators has been raised to 
     20 percent beginning with the 2021 plan year 
Audit CommitteeThe Audit Committee assists the Board with 
overseeing financial and accounting reporting 
processes, policies and practices, controls, and audits, as defined in the committee charter. 
The committee also oversees risk assessment 
and management, including the company’s 
cybersecurity risks as they relate to financial risk exposures and the security of data and information technology systems.
Sustainability Reporting CommitteeIn 2020, the Board formalized a Sustainability Reporting Committee led by the Chairman of the Board and comprised of the Board’s other four committee chairpersons. The Sustainability 
Reporting Committee oversees the company’s preparation of its annual Sustainability Report and other significant disclosures on ESG matters that are not otherwise overseen by the Health, Safety and Environment Committee. The committee meets periodically with the executives and employees responsible for preparing the annual Sustainability Report to provide strategic direction and advice prior to publication.
Board DiversityPioneer is committed to having a Board with 
diverse experience at policy-making levels and 
a complementary mix of skills and professional 
experience. The Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee is responsible for 
identifying, evaluating and recommending 
nominees for election at annual shareholder 
meetings, and filling vacancies or making Board 
additions that may occur between annual meetings. GOVERNANCE10GOVERNANCE0911Executive HSE CommitteePioneer’s Executive HSE Committee (HSEC) sets the direction and vision for key programs in our 
operating areas. Executive, technical and field staff participate in the cross-functional committee. 
The committee convenes monthly to manage HSE issues, regulatory compliance and related opportunities and provides quarterly updates to the Board HSE Committee.The development and implementation of HSEC initiatives lies with seven subcommittees that work to 
enhance our HSE programs:Assesses and recommends improvements to the incident management process, including reporting, investigation, root cause analysis and 
corrective action developmentIncident 
ManagementContractor 
HSEManages our contractor engagement strategy for 
HSE culture improvement   SafeDrivingEnhances the effectiveness of our safe-driving program to reduce motor vehicle riskProactiveHSEDevelops and promotes opportunities in proactive HSE processesAir 
EmissionsIdentifies and implements air emission-reduction projects Spills and Waste ManagementIdentifies and implements spill and waste reduction projects Provides a common platform to carefully evaluate, manage 
and communicate HSE and project execution risks prior to 
implementing a changeManagement of 
Change (MOC)GOVERNANCE1212necessary to mitigate, respond to and recover from emergencies and disasters. In emergency and crisis situations we employ the Incident Command 
System, a management system to enable effective and efficient domestic incident management by integrating a combination of facilities, equipment, personnel, procedures and communications 
operating within a standard organizational structure. 
Pioneer business continuity plans document a predetermined set of instructions and procedures that outline how business functions will be 
sustained during and after a significant disruption. The primary goals are:  • protecting employees  • defining service alternatives for accomplishing 
    critical applications  • minimizing the extent of interruption  • limiting financial losses and hardships  • satisfying federal and state compliance regulationsPioneer has determined critical business processes and developed actionable continuity plans we will deploy across our operations, business units, subsidiary companies and support services in the event of a disaster. Tabletop exercises with these groups help to streamline processes, put risk 
mitigation plans into practice and increase plan 
effectiveness. We regularly test our business 
continuity plans and incident response procedures. These efforts have been instrumental in Pioneer’s rapid response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
COVID-19 ResponseCOVID-19 tested the effectiveness of the 
company’s Emergency and Crisis Management and Business Continuity programs, and these programs performed extraordinarily well under difficult circumstances. Pioneer quickly recognized the risk COVID-19 posed to our employees and business and activated our Crisis Management team (a comprehensive and cross-functional group of 
company leaders). Our primary concern was the health and safety of our employees and their 
families. Out of an abundance of caution, numerous 
measures were put into place (following U.S. Center for Disease Control, State of Texas and County guidelines) to reduce the risk of exposure in both field and office settings. While essential field 
personnel continued reporting to work with specificEnterprise Risk ManagementThe Board oversees Pioneer’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program, while the Management Committee evaluates, manages and executes 
day-to-day management activities across the major categories of strategic, operational, financial, 
HSE and regulatory risks. Key business and other 
relevant risk subcategories are tracked and monitored in a detailed ERM matrix that aligns risks with departments and/or key contacts. An annual holistic assessment of these risks is supplemented by 
quarterly, or as needed, updates on selected issues. Risks are rated and plotted within an ERM matrix 
as high-, medium- and low-risk impacts according 
to the following criteria:  • Impact: Measures how significant the risk is to the 
    company (primarily financial impact)  • Likelihood: Measures how likely the risk will affect 
     the company in the next 12 months with 
     controls/strategies currently in place  • Velocity: Measures how quickly the risk event 
    may affect the company with current controls/
    strategies in placePioneer’s ERM includes an assessment of climate-
related risks and opportunities. As discussed in the Implementation of TCFD section of this report, Pioneer is advancing its strategic planning and ERM processes to further evaluate the impact of climate-
related risks on the company. This process includes an assessment of the impact of climate-related 
regulations and policies. Emergency and Crisis ManagementAs part of our Emergency and Crisis Management program, key Pioneer personnel at all levels are trained to address emergencies or crises following our Emergency/Crisis Management Plan. The plan defines the systems, protocols and decision-making tools to evaluate the potential incidents that could impact Pioneer. Our emergency management 
planning prepares us to carry out functions 
GOVERNANCE0913safety measures in place, we quickly transitioned office employees to a remote working environment with minimal business interruption. 

Pioneer continues to respond to the changing COVID-19 situation and has thus far successfully managed the situation and met our operational goals. For example, Pioneer Supply Chain 
Management executed plans within our COVID-19 Playbook (graphic below), ultimately preventing supply disruptions to ongoing drilling, 
completions and operations. 

CybersecurityInformation Security is the direct responsibility 
of our Technology Solutions team and is managed by our Chief Information Officer (CIO). The Board and Management Committee are engaged in information security/cybersecurity strategies and the review process. The CIO provides 
quarterly updates to the Board on company practices and mitigation strategies. The Audit Committee receives periodic relevant updates as well. Policies, procedures, and communication and training campaigns inform employees of the 
importance of information security and 
cybersecurity, potential threats, and appropriate actions. Our cybersecurity policy is available to 
all employees. Violation of this policy can result 
in disciplinary consequences. 
Additionally, our Technology Solutions infrastructure and information security management system is based on the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology 800 series framework and is subject 
to our annual Sarbanes-Oxley and financial third-party audits. Vulnerability analysis 
performed against these systems includes 
simulated hacker attacks.GOVERNANCE1412Health, Safety and Environmental CultureOur HSE philosophy states: 
“No job is so urgent or important that it cannot be done safely and 
in a manner that is environmentally 
sound.” Pioneer is dedicated to developing a corporate culture – 
in the office and in the field – that values safety and environmental stewardship. Internal campaigns such as Safely8760 and 
Stewardship365 highlight our 
safety and environmental principles. Pioneer is committed to sending our workforce home safely every day and has established HSE programs with an emphasis on high-risk areas. Our Health and Safety team utilizes data to correlate actions to incidents, 
giving us behavioral indicators that help keep Pioneer employees and contractors safe. Through employee engagement activities, training and communication 
campaigns, we educate, empower and encourage 
Pioneer employees to focus on environmental stewardship. HSE Commitment & PolicyOur HSE policy covers all Pioneer operations and aligns with our 
Health, Safety and Environmental Management System. It also requires contractors, vendors and suppliers to maintain an HSE policy that meets 
or exceeds our policy. 
We are dedicated to protecting the health and safety of everyone who 
works at Pioneer facilities and minimizing our impact on the environment 
by applying high standards, following corporate policies, and conducting business responsibly and ethically. All HSE incidents are reported, no matter how small. We investigate and learn from incidents and develop corrective actions to reduce the likelihood of recurrence. As reflected in our ESG 
Commitment statement on page v, the key to managing our corporate 
reputation is a commitment to “do the right thing” and act with integrity. 
View our HSE Commitment and HSE Policy.HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL CULTURE15There are 8,760 hours in a year. As a company, we ask our employees 
and contractors to be mindful of safety every hour of every day – whether at work or at home – which is why we named our Pioneer safety initiative Safely8760.Here are the foundational principles of our Safely8760 program:  • Commitment: Build a proactive culture of safety  • Stop Work Authority: Ask questions and “stop the job” if necessary  • Aware and Engaged: Prevent incidents at home and at work  • Communication: Share knowledge and lessons learned  • Continual Improvement: Be better, safer every dayHaving a continual focus on safety is key to reducing overall 
incidents and potential lost-time events. The HSE team is actively working with those who report incidents and near misses, in order 
to identify opportunities for improvement to our operating practices and enhance data that we can use to correlate actions to incidents, 
giving us behavioral indicators to keep Pioneer employees and 
contractors safe.Pioneer’s environmental initiative, Stewardship365 focuses on our responsibility to environmental stewardship each day of the year, whether at work or at home. Here are the foundational principles of our Stewardship365 program:
  • Responsible Operations: Respecting the air, land and water  • Thoughtful Planning: Considering the environment in 
    decision-making  • Ownership: Empowering employees and contractors to do 
     the right thing  • Communication: Effectively sharing knowledge and ideas  • Sustainable Practices: Creating value through efficiency 
     and innovation  • Continual Improvement: Reducing our environmental footprintWe actively promote stewardship through employee engagement 
activities, training and communication campaigns to educate, 
empower and encourage Pioneer employees to continue improving their environmental focus each and every day.