HEALTH AND SAFETYThe safety of Sunrunners, our customers, and local communities is Sunrun’s first priority. Our comprehensive health and safety program goes beyond the requirements of all state and federal regulations. For example, the company augmented its core Injury and Illness Prevention Program with the specialized safety programs listed below.SUNRUN’S SAFETY PROGRAMS•	Code of Safe Work Practices•	Electrical Safety Program•	Ergonomics and Stretch and 
Flex Program •	Emergency Action Plan•	Fall Protection Program•	First Aid/CPR/AED Training Program•	Fire Prevention and Protection Program•	Hazard Communication Program•	Heat Illness Prevention Program•	Jobsite Safety Inspection Forms•	Ladder Safety Program•	Material Handling Safety Program•	Office and Warehouse Inspection Forms•	OSHA 10-Hour and 30-Hour Card Program•	Personal Protective Equipment Policy•	Site Specific Safety Program•	Toolbox Talk Program•	Vehicle Safety and Usage ProgramHEALTH AND SAFETYCREATING A CULTURE OF SAFETYAs part of Sunrun’s commitment to safety, we launched ongoing campaigns to create a culture where employees feel a sense of ownership in the safety and wellbeing of their teammates. Our Why We Work Safely campaign urges employees to adhere to safe working practices whether they are on a rooftop, on the road, or in the office. This program also encourages employees to share photos of themselves, their family, and their friends doing the activities they love in their free time. Our Caught Working Safely campaign empowers employees to report any near-miss incidents to their supervisors so that appropriate measures can be taken. Sunrun also maintains an anonymous hotline for employees to report safety incidents or concerns. COMPREHENSIVE SAFETY TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION Sunrun’s learning-management system offers safety-training courses for all OSHA-required safety topics and other topics specific to Sunrun. All of these courses are customized for the solar industry and reflect best practices for construction safety. Newly hired solar installers, electricians, and site assessors must complete two full days of safety and quality training before they can participate in an installation. Once they are awarded Sunrun’s Construction Safety Certificate and Commercial Vehicle Safety Certificate, they receive state-of-the-art personal protective equipment appropriate for their job function. In addition to new-hire training, Sunrun provides weekly toolbox talks, ongoing certifications, and regular safety bulletins. Installers receive an average of 40 hours of documented training in the first year of employment.External certification programs further support Sunrun’s commitment to best-in-class safety. All energized electrical work is performed by licensed journeyman or master electricians, depending on the state. Sunrun’s senior manager of safety is a Certified Safety Professional (CSP) credentialed through the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP). Leaders in Sunrun’s quality department hold PV Installation certifications from the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioners (NABCEP) and OSHA 30 cards. All construction supervisors and foremen maintain CPR certification.HEALTH AND SAFETYVERIFICATION AND COMPLIANCE Sunrun ensures compliance with safe practices through vehicle monitoring, safety inspections, and auditing of quality-assurance (QA) photographs. The telematics devices in each of our fleet vehicles constantly transmit data on speed, driving behavior, and location to a central database. Supervisors use the data to monitor employees’ driving habits so they can instruct them in safe driving techniques. In addition, Sunrun takes photographs to document installation practices on 100% of its job sites and audits those photos to ensure that our work is performed to high standards. Sunrun’s safety and quality departments also conduct random job-site and facility audits to verify compliance and comprehension of training.NEW SAFETY INITIATIVESSunrun will develop several new health, safety, and wellness projects in 2018. Installers will begin using portable mechanical hoists to lift Brightbox batteries during installation. Additionally, since much of Sunrun’s solar system work is performed on rooftops and in attics where temperatures are high, we are investing in personal cooling systems like those used by professional athletes and the military to reduce worker fatigue. SAFETY RECORDSunrun’s industry-leading safety record is a testament to our focus on injury prevention and recovery management. Historical safety-incident rates and experience modification rates (EMR) 
are presented below. Improvements in total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and lost-time incident rate (LTIR) from 2016 to 2017 are attributable to our Stretch and Flex program. This program teaches construction employees to prepare their bodies as though they were athletes about to train or compete. 