COMMUNITYSunrun offers its employees two paid volunteer days per year and ample opportunities to engage with colleagues in activities that contribute positively to the local communities we serve. All employees are encouraged to join GRID during partnership installations on work days and to contribute to causes they care about. In particular, Sunrun’s Denver office integrated the idea of volunteerism into employees’ jobs.35SUNRUN | 2017 IMPACT REPORTCOMMUNITYSPOTLIGHTDENVER GREEN TEAMIn September 2016, a few employees in Sunrun’s Denver office launched an effort to improve the office’s recycling habits. This initiative launched the Denver Green Team. The Green Team has grown to include over 75 members—approximately one-fifth of the Denver office’s staff. The in-office initiatives from the Green Team include the following:•	Placing recycling bins in break rooms and posting signs that explain what can and cannot be recycled.•	Promoting understanding of the benefits of recycling by hosting a Recycling Lunch and Learn session in partnership with Waste Management, the office’s recycling and waste-disposal provider.•	Creating Take A Bag, Leave A Bag stations in each break room to encourage employees to share bags instead of throwing them away.•	Implementing the Caught Green Handed program to reward Sunrunners for environmentally friendly activities such as composting waste from our design office and monthly birthday-cake celebrations, turning off lights, recycling, bicycling to work, taking the stairs, and managing the weekly Friday Fridge Cleanout•	Starting an electronic-waste recycling program for the office. The Green Team worked with the office’s IT staff to encourage employees to recycle all old electrical equipment in our facility.SUNRUN | 2017 IMPACT REPORTCOMMUNITYThe Green Team has also organized out-of-office events, which have demonstrated Sunrun’s commitment to investing in the well-being of Colorado. AMERICA RECYCLES DAY DENVER PARKS | NOVEMBER 15, 2017The Green Team organized a park and river clean-up event, where Sunrunners spent the afternoon picking up litter from sections of the Platte River’s banks and surrounding city parks. Volunteers cleaned more than 300 pounds of recyclables and approximately 20 pounds of electronic waste.PEOPLE’S CLIMATE MARCHDENVER CIVIC CENTER PARK | APRIL 28, 2017Sunrun employees joined the People’s Climate March, a large event advocating for global action on climate change. WILDLANDS RESTORATIONPELLA CROSSING WETLAND RESTORATION | JULY 8, 2017The 2013 floods in Colorado damaged large expanses of national land, including Pella Crossing, where water levels rose beyond their designed capacity. The Green Team replanted grasses to create habitat for the birds and amphibians found in these areas. To restore the lands, volunteers also collected and disposed of debris carried by floodwaters into this wildlife preserve.LEFT HAND CREEK | SEPTEMBER 30, 2017This national-forest area was also damaged by the 2013 floods. The Green Team planted seeds in washed-out areas, installed mesh on a hillside to prevent further washouts from rain and snow melt, and installed check dams.WILLOW-TREE FUNDRAISING HARVESTGOLDEN GATE STATE PARK | FEBRUARY 11, 2017The Green Team harvested willows from healthy plants for planting nearby as part of restoration efforts. They clipped “poles” from several species of willows to be sold, for no profit, to restoration organizations. The money raised from selling these poles was donated to the Colorado State Forestry Service nursery in Fort Collins.CORPORATE GOVERNANCECORPORATE GOVERNANCESunrun is committed to achieving and maintaining a best-in-class corporate-governance structure. The company expects all its employees to act according to the highest standards of honesty and ethical conduct. We strictly comply with our Code of Conduct and all applicable laws and regulations in the countries and regions where we do business. Sunrun creates value for customers and builds relationships based on trust by dealing fairly with customers, suppliers, government departments, competitors, and employees. We also promote accountability internally by holding regular staff meetings and sharing financial performance and company updates with employees.Sunrun maintains a strong open-door policy, a confidential employee hotline administered by an independent company, and an employee relations team in our human resources function dedicated to thoroughly and fairly investigating all employee complaints.BOARD OF DIRECTORSThe Board of Directors makes recommendations and conducts unbiased evaluation and supervision of management activities. It maintains an independent majority at all times and comprises eight members, all but two of whom are independent. Steve Vassallo serves as Lead Independent Director and is responsible for overseeing separate meetings of the independent directors. Our co-founder Edward Fenster has served as Chairman since March 2014. The Board also has three women members, including our CEO Lynn Jurich.The Board has three committees. The Audit Committee assists the board in ensuring we uphold the highest standards of financial integrity through accounting transparency and conformance. The Compensation Committee seeks to align executive compensation with shareholders’ interests and corporate goals. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees the evaluation of the Board and assists in recommending new members and developing and maintaining corporate governance policies. WHISTLEBLOWER POLICYWe promote open communication. Our whistleblower policy encourages employees to use our hotline or web portal to raise concerns confidentially and anonymously, if they prefer. We take all complaints and concerns seriously. 