We founded Sunrun in 2007 with the vision to create a planet run by the sun. What began as graduate students building a company during the Great Recession has grown to thousands of employees and more than 285,000 customers across the country. Recent events have changed the way the entire world is working, living, and thinking. Resiliency and energy are more important now than ever as we face wildfires, hurricanes, and other natural disasters, alongside the risk from pandemics like COVID-19. Yet these challenges present opportunities that will make Sunrun more durable. We are focused on employee and customer health and safety, the health of the company, and continuing to deliver value to our customers. We’re quickly making the process of installing solar almost completely contact-free. We have already moved our sales consultations from in-person to virtual, invested in technology to streamline our installation processes, including online permitting and interconnection in many locations, and deployed drone technology to complete rooftop surveys. In California, households are using as much as 20% more electricity than normal. Home solar and batteries not only give people peace of mind financially but, as homes become sanctuaries, it allows them to safeguard their families against the increasingly unreliable electricity grid when they need power most. Sunrun is committed to serving all stakeholders: our employees, our customers, our financial partners, and the communities in which we operate. To ensure alignment with our mission, we created a formal committee of senior management to oversee Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters at the company, while also establishing board level oversight of ESG performance by our Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee. These steps build on many actions we have taken over the years to be a company that embraces all aspects of sustainability. We are already deeply carbon negative, and seek to help our customers and partners become carbon negative as well. Our solar systems have prevented greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions totaling 5.2 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). Our goal is to replace fossil fuel plants one at a time, and 
the choices we’re making as a company are getting us 
a little closer to this goal every year. We are also a financially sustainable company. In 2019, we grew our customer base by 22% while generating $102 million in cash, after adjusting for certain activities. This strong financial foundation and attractive ongoing margins supports continued growth and innovation. We will continue delivering our critical home solar and battery service to customers safely. In the decade ahead, we look forward to continuing to provide clean, resilient energy to people across the nation.About the ReportThis is our third annual Impact Report. We are pleased to show improvement from the last two years and will continue to evaluate the impacts of our business on the world around us. We see this report as a holistic resource for ourselves, our shareholders, our partners, legislators, and our customers to measure our success as a sustainable business. We are proud that our business contributes to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). This set of 17 goals is designed to eradicate poverty, eliminate inequalities, and spur the creation of a sustainable and resilient global society. Our core values at Sunrun align with this vision for the future.A Letter from 
Our Founders
Resiliency and energy are more important now than ever as we face wildfires, hurricanes, and other natural disasters, alongside the risk from 
pandemics like COVID-19. 
Yet these challenges present opportunities that will make Sunrun more durable.Lynn JurichCo-founder
Chief Executive Officer	Edward FensterCo-founder 
Executive ChairmanVision and ValuesAbout SunrunSunrun Inc. (Nasdaq:RUN) is the nation’s leading home solar, battery storage, and energy services company. Founded in 2007, Sunrun pioneered home solar service plans to make local clean energy more accessible to everyone for little to no upfront cost. Sunrun’s innovative home battery solution, Brightbox, brings families affordable, resilient, and reliable energy. The company can also manage and share stored solar energy from the batteries to provide benefits to households, utilities, and the electric grid while reducing our reliance on polluting energy sources. For more information, please visit www.sunrun.com.2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  VISION AND VALUESOrganizational ProfileSunrun pioneered the “solar-as.-a.-service” model 13 years ago. Since then, we have been 
delivering on a vision to create a planet run by the sun and provide Americans with affordable, 
reliable and clean energy. OUR EMPLOYEESSunrun employs more than 4,800* people throughout the United States and collaborates with many partner organizations to enable access to clean energy and achieve important diversity milestones, such as hiring women, veterans, and people of color.Some of the organizations Sunrun works with include GRID Alternatives, Solar Ready Vets, WISE (Women in Solar Energy), Blacks in Green, and CET (Center for Employment Training).OUR CUSTOMERSAs of 2019, Sunrun provides solar service from coast to coast, in 22 states plus Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia. We proudly serve more than 285,000 customers across the country and are growing quickly. OUR IMPACTSunrun has generated more than 7 billion kilowatt hours of clean energy since 2007 and prevented 5.2 million tons of CO2 
from entering the atmosphere. This is the equivalent of preventing carbon dioxide emissions from more than 5 billion pounds of coal or 586 million gallons of gasoline.*As of 12/31/20192019 IMPACT REPORT  |  VISION AND VALUES2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  VISION AND VALUESOur Impact in Numbers: Environment7.4 BILLIONKilowatt hours of clean energy produced 
since 2007 1,987Megawatts  of solar deployed since 2007, making Sunrun one of 
the largest solar companies in the world5.2 MILLIONMetric tons of carbon offsetted by Sunrun 
since 2007That is the equivalent 
to negating: 13 BILLIONMiles driven by an average 
passenger vehicle586 MILLIONGallons of gasoline 
from an average passenger vehicle882 THOUSANDHomes’ electricity 
use for a year2How often, in minutes, a new Sunrun system is installed on average per work week2.1 BILLIONKilowatt hours of clean energy produced in 201982019 IMPACT REPORT  |  VISION AND VALUESOur Impact in Numbers: Customers285 THOUSANDSunrun customers 
across the U.S. 48The length, in hours, of 
a recent sale to install in 
Las Vegas. We are cutting down on lead times to 
improve customer experience$300 MILLION+Savings to our customers10-40%Typical bill savings for a Sunrun customer15% +Percentage of new 
customers in our direct business choosing to 
add a Brightbox to 
their solar installation. In California, approximately 
35% of all new direct customers are choosing to add a Brightbox battery.Our Impact in Numbers: Community3,564Number of installations completed through 
GRID Alternatives
in partnership with 
Sunrun, which translates 
to 14,155 kilowatts of 
solar installed$92.7 MILLIONSavings for low income families through these installations 185 THOUSANDTons of CO2 prevented through this partnership185 THOUSANDVolunteer hours for participants on GRID Alternatives projects 
in partnership 
with Sunrun2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  VISION AND VALUESFinancial SustainabilitySunrun has delivered robust growth over its 13-year history and aims to generate strong returns to our financial partners while building a solid financial foundation that allows the company to make a meaningful impact for decades to come. Financial sustainability is core to the company’s philosophy.Our operating and financial performance highlights our discipline and commitment to sustainability. In 2019, we grew our number of customers by 22% while maintaining strong unit economics that allowed us to generate $102 million in cash, without relying on common equity issuances or raising additional 
recourse debt. We believe that strong net unit margins provide Sunrun a foundation to be able to continue to grow, innovate, and serve all stakeholders, including our stockholders and financial partners. We have $5 billion of gross solar system assets on our balance sheet and have largely funded our growth with non-recourse project debt and tax equity. Sunrun ended 2019 with $3.7 billion in Gross Earning Assets and $1.5 billion in Net Earning Assets. The company ended 2019 with $363 million in total cash and $239 million in recourse debt. Sunrun has $2 billion in 
non-recourse debt, which is solely secured by the 
solar energy systems. In 2019, we added as many customers as our two largest competitors combined.2019 FINANCIAL & 
OPERATION HIGHLIGHTS:•	Total revenue of $859 million, an increase 
of 13% compared to 2018•	Customer Agreements revenue of $345 million, an increase of 27% compared to 2018•	 285,000 customers at year-end, 22% growth compared to the prior year•	Generated $102 million of cash•	$353 million of Net Present Value createdFIGURE 1: Growing Customer BaseFIGURE 2: Strong Customer ValuesFIGURE 3: Continued Cost ImprovementsFIGURE 4: Improving Customer Net MarginsFIGURE 5: Growing Cash Flow & Long Term ValueAt Sunrun, we offer clean, reliable, affordable solar energy and battery storage solutions to accelerate the transition away from polluting fossil fuels. We recognize that inaction on climate change threatens global security and stability, and bringing solutions to bear on the issue remains the driving force behind our mission to create a planet run by the sun. Sunrun is committed to comprehensive environmental stewardship as demonstrated through the following avenues:Supplier Responsibility Sunrun vendors are subject to screening on environmental and social criteria. Please refer to our Vendor Code of Conduct for more information on the policy and our “Vendor Sustainability” section below for 2019 updates.Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention Sunrun is reducing or eliminating hazardous waste release, reducing waste generation, limiting greenhouse gas emissions, and engaging in product end-of-life stewardship.Performance Evaluation and Reporting
We monitor performance and report in accordance with prevailing sustainability reporting frameworks, such as the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Our annual reporting informs interested stakeholders on environmental performance, and helps identify priority areas for improvement.Employee Awareness Employees are provided with opportunities to develop environmental knowledge and skills, empowering them to lessen their personal carbon footprint.Sunrun’s Climate Change StrategySunrun exists to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. However, we must appreciate that climate risks, which could disrupt or compromise our operations, are real today and will persist. Only through tireless efforts to deploy our products and services and to adhere to our evolving environmental and social policies can we insulate ourselves, our partners, and our communities from the consequences of unchecked climate change.Reducing GHG EmissionsSunrun’s solar energy systems offset GHG emissions every moment that they deliver clean energy to our customers. During 2019, we deployed 413 megawatts of solar to 53,900 customers. These systems could generate nearly 16 billion kilowatt-hours of clean energy during the next 30 years, enough to prevent the emission of nearly 11 million metric tons of CO2e. This quantity is more than 33 times greater than the quantity of CO2e emitted to deploy these systems, which means that Sunrun negates significantly more emissions than we produce. Sunrun’s GHG emissions estimates draw on the guidance provided in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.1 Our emissions inventory includes direct (scope 1), indirect (scope 2), and other indirect (scope 3) emissions, covering emissions attributable to Sunrun’s company-owned and -operated vehicle fleet, occupied offices and warehouse space, equipment-lifecycle considerations, and the supporting activities of our partners. We prepared our first emissions inventory in 2017 and replicated the same methodology in subsequent years so results can be compared readily. Please refer to the Appendix for more details about on our calculations and underlying assumptions.FIGURE 7
Emissions Intensity					Energy Intensity*Positive Carbon ReturnsOnce Sunrun’s solar energy systems begin operating, positive carbon returns accrue rapidly. Our deployed solar energy systems prevent more GHG emissions than they emit over their product lifecycle, resulting in a net-positive carbon balance. After operating for just 10 months, a Sunrun solar energy system will prevent the emission of as much GHGs as were emitted to create and install the system. Because Sunrun’s systems are expected to produce clean energy for 30 years or longer, our systems prevent the release of harmful GHGs for 97% of their lifetime.Environmental Management SystemSunrun strives for exceptional environmental performance, and maintains an environmental management system (EMS) based on principles of continuous improvement. Our EMS is continually improved to remain aligned with Sunrun’s business strategy and to ensure progressive environmental performance over time.Vehicle FleetWe continually strive for environmental responsibility at Sunrun, including how we manage our vehicle fleet. In 2019, we continued retiring gasoline vehicles in favor of hybrid and electric vehicles. Currently, nearly 50% of our vehicle fleet is hybrid, and we expect this number to continue increasing throughout 2020 and beyond. Additionally, in 2019 we added real-time monitoring to our vehicle fleet in telematics solutions, providing opportunities to track drivers, optimize route patterns that result in enhanced safety, and reduced emissions and operating costs.FacilitiesWe promote employee wellbeing and minimize negative environmental impacts across all of our facilities. From the coatings and carpet we use to our extensive preventative maintenance policies, we continually search for opportunities to reduce our carbon footprint. In 2019, Sunrun relocated both our Denver and San Francisco corporate headquarters to LEED certified buildings. Equipment RecyclingAs we deploy more systems, we also bear a greater responsibility for managing the end of the systems’ useful lives. We are integrating product end-of-life considerations into our EMS and are preparing to decommission, recycle, resell, or redeploy our energy systems. Sunrun uses monocrystalline and multicrystalline photovoltaic modules, thereby avoiding the mounting concerns about hazardous materials present in alternative chemistries such as thin-film modules. We are prepared to sustainably dispose of modules, batteries, inverters, and other electronic equipment used in installations through partnerships with third-party recycling and refurbishment vendors. These vendors are certified under the Responsible Recyclers R2:2013, OHSAS 1800:2007, and ISO 14001:2007 standards. Learn more about the industry’s approach to lifecycle considerations from the Solar Industry Energy Association (SEIA). Vendor SustainabilitySunrun works with vendors that share our commitment to creating a better, greener, and kinder planet. That’s why we advocate to include policies on environmental protection and sustainability as well as responsible mineral sourcing in our first Vendor Code of Conduct, adopted in January 2019. All of Sunrun’s relevant vendors are required to sign our Vendor Code of Conduct, and in 2019, there were no known violations of the agreement. Responsible Mineral SourcingSunrun expects its vendors to provide our company with products that contain responsibly-sourced commodities. Vendors that supply products containing minerals (including but not limited to: cobalt, wolframite [titanium], cassiterite [tin], tungsten, and gold) sourced from conflict-affected and high-risk areas must ensure that the sourcing of these minerals does not knowingly contribute, directly or indirectly, to armed conflict, including terrorist financing or human-rights violations. Sunrun expects vendors to source minerals in a manner consistent with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Sunrun recognizes that cobalt, a mineral used in some types of batteries, presents an increased risk of being sourced from areas associated with unfair labor practices. Because of this, we choose to work with battery manufacturers that share our commitment to responsible mineral sourcing. Additionally, Sunrun will evaluate battery innovations that may further reduce the mineral content of batteries.The WorkplaceA Culture of SafetySunrun believes access to a healthy and safe workplace is a fundamental human right. Ensuring the safety of Sunrunners, our customers, and local communities is Sunrun’s top priority, and we provide best in class training and tools for our employees. The backbone of a strong safety culture is two-way trust between employees and their employer. A key indicator of increased trust is employees feeling comfortable reporting unsafe conditions and “near-miss” incidents. In 2019, we saw an increase in these reports, which we view as an encouraging sign 
of increased trust.  This trust is demonstrated clearly in the improvement seen in tracked safety metrics year-over-year. The reduction of incidents in 2019 is directly attributable to field leadership taking an active role in reducing repeat accidents, ensuring immediate reporting, and correcting unsafe conditions.Comprehensive safety training and certification programs also play a vital role in promoting safety across our organization. Sunrun provides safety training programs for all OSHA-required safety topics and additional topics specific to Sunrun for new hires. These trainings continue as employees mature in their roles. Two full days of training are provided to new solar installers, electricians, and site assessors before they can participate in an installation, with installers receiving an average of 40 hours of documented training by the end of their first year of employment.FIGURE 13
Recordable Incident Rates (2016–2019)		Compared to similar industries, like roofing, electrical, and construction, Sunrun’s incident rates are currently lower than all averages and continue to decline annually. Our minor injuries have dropped year over year while support for injured workers increased and repeat incidents have decreased.Our internal training programs are further strengthened by external certification and licensing agencies including journeyman and master electrician license holders, Certified Safety Professionals (CSP) through the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP), PV installation certifications from the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioner (NABCEP) and OSHA 30 cardholders. All construction supervisors and foremen maintain 
CPR certification.Verification and Compliance Compliance with safety policies is achieved through vehicle monitoring, frequent inspections, and auditing of quality-assurance (QA) photographs. The telematics devices in each of our fleet vehicles constantly transmit data on speed, driving behavior, and location, allowing for targeted training on vehicle safety to employees. 100% of installs are audited for safety through photo documentation, ensuring our work is performed to Sunrun’s safety 
and quality standards. Additionally, random job-site and facility audits are performed to verify compliance and training comprehension.Product SafetySunrun’s Safety and Logistics departments collaborate on the selection of all new products. When a new chemical is considered for use in field, office, or warehouse environments, Sunrun first evaluates the health and environmental hazards documented on the safety data sheet published by the chemical’s manufacturer. Only products that can be safely handled with basic personal protective equipment are accepted for use by Sunrun employees. Vendor Health and SafetyOur commitment to ensuring safe and injury-free workplaces extends to our vendors. Sunrun’s Vendor Code of Conduct requires that all vendors provide workers with a safe and healthy work environment. We require vendors to comply with all applicable health and safety laws, regulations, and practices, including those relating to occupational safety, emergency preparedness, occupational injury and illness, industrial hygiene, physically demanding work, machine safeguarding, sanitation, food, and housing. We also require vendors to ensure that all required permits, licenses, and registrations are obtained, maintained, and kept up-to-date and that all workers are qualified and equipped to perform activities safely and responsibly.To ensure that vendors abide by Sunrun’s Vendor Code of Conduct and applicable laws and regulations, we may conduct periodic vendor audits. When an audit uncovers a violation, Sunrun reserves the right to terminate its relationship with the vendor and impose restrictions on future business unless the violation is promptly corrected. Sunrun aims to survey vendors that comprise at least 80% of total value transacted with Sunrun, along with new vendors, to seek confirmations that each vendor is aware of and compliant with the Vendor Code of Conduct. People and CommunitiesAs part of Sunrun’s efforts to increase diversity and inclusion, this year Lynn Jurich became the first CEO in the solar industry to sign both the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion and the Catalyst CEO Champions for Change pledges. These commitments will help Sunrun and other member companies achieve  their goal of modeling best practices in gender equality, diversity and inclusion. Catalyst recently released a report that showed an increase in women’s representation from their member companies in the past five years. Women make up 50% of our senior management team, and 43% of our Board of Directors. In 2018 we were the first national solar company to achieve 100% pay parity after committing to The White House Equal Pay Pledge in 2016.  Diversity Policy and StrategiesSunrun’s mission to create a planet run by the sun relies on making solar inclusive. To do so, we collaboratively orient work around three pillars: the workforce, the workplace, and the marketplace.Workforce•	We are proud to be an equal opportunity employer and a welcoming place for everyone without consideration of race, color, religion, ethnicity, citizenship, political activity or affiliation, marital status, age, national origin, ancestry, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, sex or gender, or any other basis protected by law.•	We seek to attract, develop, advance and retain the best diverse talent through the use of job boards and paid campaigns. We attend events like Black MBA Conferences to ensure we are hiring diverse, high quality candidates.•	We focus on hiring underrepresented groups across all functions and managerial levels.•	We work with groups like GRID Alternatives and Blacks in Green to help reach and recruit individuals who are traditionally underrepresented in the solar industry, including women and people of color. Workplace•	We strive to create an open and inclusive culture where everyone’s unique backgrounds, thoughts, experiences and abilities are welcomed, valued, respected and celebrated.•	With the sponsorship of our executives, we leverage our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to create and sustain a workplace where everyone belongs.•	We utilize the results of internal surveys to better identify and address any diversity concerns and improve Sunrun’s processes.Marketplace•	We plan to continue driving profitable growth by making solar and batteries more accessible to all, including people in low-income communities.•	On July 18, 2019 Sunrun won a contract with East Bay Community Energy to install solar and batteries on 500 low-income housing units in Oakland, California. The new solar paired storage resources will help offset the power generated from a retiring jet-fuel power plant in Jack London Square.Benefits Program Our competitive benefits program provides employees with the means to ensure the health and financial 
wellbeing for themselves and their families. Full-time employees are eligible for the Sunrun benefits package, which includes medical, dental, vision, life, and disability insurance, along with access to flexible spending programs and a suite of voluntary benefits such as legal and identity protection. It also includes an employee stock-purchase plan (ESPP) and a 401(k) retirement plan. We offer a company match feature to the 401(k) plan, under which Sunrun matches each employee’s contributions up to a specific percentage. Part time employees are also eligible for ESPP and 401(k). We believe it is important for our employees to spend time with their families and focus on personal well being. We offer 11 paid holidays and paid time off for non-exempt employees, and freedom time off for all exempt employees. Additionally, Sunrun offers two paid volunteer days per year to allow our employees to help build stronger communities, one annual flexible holiday, and 10 days of paid leave for active military service. Additionally, Sunrun provides 10 weeks of paid parental leave for all employees who have been at the company for more than a year.Employee Satisfaction and DevelopmentWe want to make Sunrun an exceptional place to work and are committed to providing fair and equal pay to all employees. To measure employee engagement and satisfaction, we conduct a company-wide survey twice a year. Responses are anonymous to encourage employees to provide honest, candid feedback. We believe that employee development and performance should be discussed between managers and their employees regularly. As such, Sunrun’s “Check-Ins” program is scheduled for all employees three times per year. These discussions focus on skill development, past contributions, and reflection of Sunrun values. Check-Ins are purposefully separated from an annual compensation discussion to allow for an open discussion on areas for growth and career development. RecognitionsSunrun won 11 awards based on employee survey data, and Lynn Jurich was recognized as one of the best CEOs in the United States in 2019. These awards from Comparably are especially impressive because we were up against many other companies including Microsoft, Google, LinkedIn, Costco, T-Mobile, and Amazon.TrainingProduct training and the customer journey is a big focus at Sunrun. Therefore, we provide learning resources that prepare our employees to provide positive experiences and results. We offer training for all employees in the areas of new hire orientation, skill development, and leadership training for managers.We have a robust library of online curriculum including electronic learning modules from third parties, as well as over 200 custom, in-house-developed eMods. The modules range from 2-minute “how to” videos to complex, 
multi-hour training programs. Employees spent over 10,000 person-hours completing online learning in 2019.Our skill-based employees take advantage of classroom training, hands-on training, and distance learning in the form of webinars. We delivered 529 days of instructor-led training in 2019.Online ResourcesLinkedIn Learning is an on-demand learning solution designed to provide our employees with the tools to take charge of their development, gain new skills and advance their current role and overall careers. Since April 2019, Sunrun had 633 active users on LinkedIn Learning who have logged more than 1,110 total hours developing their skills. The portal averaged 2 hours and 51 minutes per viewer.The Customer CommunitySince 2007, Sunrun has offset nearly 5.2 million metric tons of carbon dioxide by deploying 1,987 megawatts of solar power. With a total of 285,000 customers, we see a new system installed every two minutes. This has created has created hundreds of millions of dollars in savings for our customers, who see an average bill savings of 10-40% over the lifetime of their system. Brightbox has become a major focal point for the company, both in terms of energy services and customer experience. Now, more than 15% of all Sunrun customers choose to add a Brightbox to their system. The resiliency, protection during outages, and bill savings are clear values to customers across the country. Permitting EfficiencyIn 2018, Sunrun began working on the Solar Automated Permit Processing (SolarAPP) Campaign. SolarAPP is a collaborative effort to foster residential solar adoption by making it easier for cities, counties, and utilities to quickly and safely approve residential solar projects for installation and operation with the grid.The first SolarAPP project kicked off in 2019, led by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), which is working with an all-star team of experts to build an online permit platform that will enable automated compliance reviews and instant permit approval. This team includes solar industry groups, cities and counties, code bodies, environmental organizations, and government entities.•	External soft costs, delays and resulting cancellations can add $1 per watt (or $7,000) per project for solar customers•	Every week shaved off external processes can increase the rate of local installations by up to 10%When rooftop solar installation blockers are removed, customers are happier, realization rates improve, and adoption rates go up. In turn, cities and counties benefit from greater community resilience and a higher volume of permitting fees. When available, the SolarAPP portal will:•	Be free for organizations to adopt as needed•	Standardize permit applications and perform automated compliance checks based on code year 
and certification•	Enable instant permit approval, online fee payment, and digital record tracking•	Be able to stand alone or interact with various existing government and inspection platforms•	Ensure that city and county manual design review and inspection resources are only used on installations•	Eventually expand to more renewable energy and smart home technologies like battery storage 
and EV chargers•	Incorporate a marketplace of resources and training from code bodies and expert organizationsEarly testing of the SolarAPP model in Nevada reduced wait timelines for installs and activation from over a month down to zero days. This has allowed Nevada teams to set clear expectations with customers, ultimately ensuring a better solar experience.Our Global SocietyBeyond ensuring that our customers and employees are well cared for, Sunrun is committed to making an impact on society as a whole. We do this through our industry-leading work in thought leadership, policy development, and innovative energy networking programs.Advancements in Thought LeadershipPutting panels on rooftops and batteries in garages is what we do on a daily basis. However, that is not our business. Our business is building a future of resilience and sustainability. Our Energy Services team is on the cutting-edge of energy technology and continually pushes the innovation envelope. We engage in partnerships that help create distributed energy communities, outline plans to bring connected energy networks to life, and author concept papers to share our vision with the world. Simply put, we’re trying to retire fossil fuel power plants one at a time and create a healthier environment for future generations.In 2019, we authored three pivotal pieces of thought leadership which set the stage for future action.We Can Decarbonize RapidlyOur climate is changing. Not only is it happening faster than expected, but extreme weather events are destroying the very electric grid we rely on. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), we only have about 12 years to act before the damage is irrevocable. In her paper “We Can Decarbonize Rapidly,” Lynn Jurich writes about the technology and solutions to decarbonize our electricity system, and points to overwhelming public support as the catalyst to get us there. Lynn outlines the value of prototyping, and focuses on how we can empower local resources to accelerates our efforts, recognizing that much of our ability to decarbonize will depend on local efforts.We should boldly scale local energy resources, and prove out how they can complement and streamline our centralized power plants and transmission system. This will help us develop a reliable, affordable and decarbonized energy system on a timeline that supports a prosperous and sustainable future.Building a More Resilient GridOver the past 40 years, fire seasons have grown significantly longer and large fires are five times more common. Higher temperatures and prolonged dry weather are testing our existing energy infrastructure and threatening our environment. Too much energy flowing through power lines can result in sagging, which can cause electrical sparks that lead to fires if this brings the line close to other objects, like trees. Sunrun’s paper “Building a More Resilient Grid” outlines how rooftop solar and batteries can reduce the amount of electricity that needs to be transmitted to a neighborhood, thereby mitigating risks associated with sending high amounts of energy over power lines. Repowering CleanLocal power can be the solution to the City of Los Angeles’ plan to phase out three natural-gas power plants. The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP) can access clean, reliable energy resources by harnessing home solar to create a city-wide “virtual power plant.” Our analysis shows that rooftop solar and batteries sited at 75,000 Los Angeles homes and apartment buildings can replace the peak capacity of one of LADWP’s retiring gas plants for $60 million less than the construction of a new plant. Going forward, Sunrun will continue paving the way for product developments and grid infrastructure impacts through pilot projects, thought leadership, and prototyping of new energy concepts. We are partnering on modernizing the grid, bringing home batteries to low-income communities, and continually developing advanced products to improve the grid.Spotlight on OutagesThis past year, millions of Californians were without electricity—for hours or days—as utilities shut down power lines to prevent fires. In Northern California, for instance, PG&E’s aging equipment has caused more than 1,500 fires, including the state’s deadliest, over the last six years. And the utility tells regulators that power shutoffs to prevent wildfires can be expected for the next 10 years. Extreme weather events are expected to increasingly disrupt our nation’s aging energy system. The United States suffers from the highest number of power outages in the developed world and will need to spend 
$2.2 trillion on infrastructure upgrades over the next two decades to solve 
this problem.Rooftop solar energy paired with batteries enables households to generate power where it i’s used, reducing the effects of outages and providing reliable backup energy when the grid fails.In a sampling of Bay Area counties served by PG&E which experienced power outages in October 2019, Sunrun customers were able to endure these outages by utilizing rooftop solar and battery storage, many for days at a time, until grid electricity was restored. Brightbox customers kept their lights on while the grid was down for more than 36 hours on average in this time period. County by county, this snapshot of Brightbox’s performance during recent power outages in the Bay Area demonstrates the reliability and resilience afforded by rooftop solar and battery storage to households.1.	SONOMA COUNTY The average Sunrun customer utilized backup electricity from their solar and battery system for 67 hours. One Santa Rosa family powered their essential home needs using rooftop solar and battery storage for 143 hours—nearly six straight days.2.	NAPA COUNTY The average Sunrun customer utilized backup electricity from their solar and battery systems for 53 hours. One Napa customer powered their essential home needs using rooftop solar and battery storage for 125 hours—more than five days.3.	MARIN COUNTY The average Sunrun customer utilized backup electricity from their solar and battery system for 54 hours.4.	SAN MATEO COUNTY The average Sunrun customer utilized backup electricity from their solar and battery system for 37 hours.5.	ALAMEDA COUNTY The average Sunrun customer utilized backup electricity from their solar and battery system for 28 hours.6.	SANTA CLARA COUNTY The average Sunrun customer utilized backup electricity from their solar and battery system for 24 hours.7.	CONTRA COSTA COUNTY The average Sunrun customer utilized backup electricity from their solar and battery system for 22 hours.8.	SOLANO COUNTY The average Sunrun customer utilized backup electricity from their solar and battery system for 21 hours. One Solano customer powered their essential home needs using rooftop solar and battery storage for 108 hours—more than four days.Advancements in Connected Energy NetworksIn 2019, Sunrun made major strategic advancements in connected energy networks through the development of several distinct programs across the country.ISO-NEIn February 2019, Sunrun won a bid to provide 20 megawatts of residential solar and battery power to the ISO-NE wholesale capacity market. The capacity market auction determines what generating resources will be selected - and at what cost - to help power the electricity system across the six New England states, one of the most populated regions in the country. Sunrun’s awarded contract signifies the first time that customer-sited solar and battery systems were selected to participate in a capacity market in the United States, competing head-to-head with traditional, centralized power plants in a wholesale market.HECO-VPPIn partnership with Open Access Technology International (OATI), Sunrun committed to participate in HECO’s Grid Services Program on the island of Oahu. Between the years 2020-2024, Sunrun Brightbox systems will provide stored solar power back onto the electricity grid during peak hours. More distributed energy means less need for additional utility generation during times of peak energy demand. Sunrun’s Brightbox batteries will also be discharged back onto the electricity grid to provide energy stability and protect against blackouts during periods of underfrequency. Approximately 1,000 Brightboxes will be enrolled in the initial program.Glendale, CaliforniaIn July 2019, Glendale’s City Council unanimously approved Glendale Water & Power’s plan, as proposed by Sunrun, to replace the Grayson gas plant with local clean energy, including a “virtual power plant” made up of residential solar and batteries. While this is not a final contract, the vote gives the utility the green light to proceed with negotiations to secure these clean energy resources. East Bay Community EnergyIn 2019, Sunrun won a contract with East Bay Community Energy (EBCE) in Oakland, California to provide 500 kilowatts of power from home solar and battery systems installed in Alameda County. This contract utilizes California’s Solar on Multifamily Affordable Housing (SOMAH) program and the Self-Generated Incentive Program (SGIP), helping low income families save money every month on their utility bills, providing backup power through battery storage, and contributing to workforce development for disadvantaged communities. Ultimately, the partnership with EBCE has a twofold benefit: It provides resource adequacy for the entire grid by providing backup power, helping to retire a local jet-fueled power plant, while also providing customer value streams through resilience and bill savings.Advancements in PolicyIn November, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released a report that found that global human-caused carbon emissions must reach “net zero” by 2050 in order to limit temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius. This is no longer theoretical; in 2019, California’s largest utility went bankrupt due to liability from increasingly catastrophic fire seasons that are destroying entire communities and forcing lengthy blackouts for millions. Globally, we’re all witness to historic wildfires, torrential storms, and record-breaking temperatures.It’s clear that reaching the climate apex is not an “if” but a “when.” Although we need to adapt to a changed, and changing, environment, there are mitigation steps we can take to protect our nation’s safety, economy and future. 
If we wait longer to act on climate, it will be too late. We need policies today that give us a lifeline to escape the climate crisis.Home solar and batteries are changing how people experience energy. In particular, Sunrun’s policy team has seen many positive outcomes after advocating for fair compensation for excess solar energy that is sold back to the grid, programs that create connected energy networks using solar and batteries, and expanded access to solar and batteries for low income and disadvantaged communities. The team also continued its work leading local, regional, and national solar advocates organizing to help achieve key policy outcomes. In 2019, Sunrun partnered with key industry allies to help expand solar energy in underrepresented communities across the country. Everyone has a right to solar energy, and Sunrun is committed to enabling more solar access in the communities that need it the most. GRID ALTERNATIVESIn 2019, Sunrun continued its partnership with GRID Alternatives (GRID). GRID is a national leader in making solar power and jobs accessible to underserved communities. The partnership between Sunrun and GRID, now in its ninth year, supports job training and solar installations for low income families and traditionally underserved communities. In 2019, Sunrun and GRID installed 4.5 megawatts of solar for 917 low-income families, providing $19 million in lifetime savings. The solar projects also prevented 45,000 tons of GHG emissions in communities that bear the brunt of environmental pollution and health disparities. Finally, the 49,000 hours of job training delivered by Sunrun and GRID provide opportunities for people to acquire new skills and prepare for careers in the solar energy industry.BLACKS IN GREENIn 2019, Sunrun announced its partnership with Blacks in Green (BIG), an environmental economic development organization designed to tackle pollution and poverty, and expand access to solar energy and jobs in the Chicagoland area.The goals of the partnership are to increase access to clean, affordable home solar energy for South Side Chicago homeowners, and to increase clean energy career opportunities for residents in traditionally underserved and underrepresented communities.The partnership includes a commitment from Sunrun to recruit solar trainees from the BIG network. Sunrun will also support BIG at educational events throughout the community so residents can learn about rooftop solar, including the Illinois Solar for All program, designed by community members and policymakers to increase access to solar energy for underserved communities.At Sunrun, we are committed to upholding strong corporate governance practices and conducting business responsibly. We seek to continually enhance the structures, policies, and internal controls that support and promote accountability, transparency and ethical behavior. The company expects all its employees and business partners to act according to the highest standards of honesty and ethical conduct. Our commitment to good corporate governance is reflected in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Vendor Code of Conduct, and other related governance policies, which are reviewed annually by the Nominating and Governance Committee. Any changes deemed appropriate are submitted to the full Board of Directors for its consideration. Sunrun creates value for customers and builds relationships based on trust by dealing fairly with customers, suppliers, government agencies, competitors, and employees. We also promote accountability internally by holding regular staff meetings and sharing financial performance and company updates with employees.Sunrun maintains a strong open-door policy, a confidential employee hotline administered by an independent company, and an employee-relations team on our Human Resources team that is dedicated to thoroughly and fairly investigating 
all employee complaints.Board of DirectorsThe Board of Directors makes recommendations and conducts unbiased evaluation and supervision of management activities. It maintains an independent majority at all times and comprises seven members, all but two of whom are independent. Gerald Risk serves as Lead Independent Director and is responsible for overseeing separate meetings of the independent directors. Our co-founder Edward Fenster has served as Chairman since March 2014. The Board has three female members, including our CEO Lynn Jurich.The Board has three committees. The Audit Committee assists the Board in ensuring we uphold the highest standards of financial integrity through accounting transparency and conformance. The Compensation Committee seeks to align executive compensation with shareholders’ interests and corporate goals. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees the evaluation of the Board, assists in recommending new members and developing and maintaining corporate-governance policies, and oversees Environment, Social, and Governance initiatives and reporting at the Board level. Vendor Integrity and EthicsWe require our vendors to act with integrity and to adhere to our Vendor Code of Conduct. This Vendor Code of Conduct, along with Sunrun’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, prohibits undisclosed conflicts of interest, money-laundering, and whistleblower retribution. Whistleblower ProtectionSunrun is committed to maintaining high standards of financial integrity and takes very seriously all complaints and concerns regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing, and other legal matters, including violations of Sunrun’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Sunrun prohibits retribution or retaliation in any way against any person who has in good faith made a complaint or reported a concern or against any person who assists in any investigation. Sunrun also requires that vendors strive to allow their workforces to raise similar concerns without fear of retaliation. For more information on corporate governance matters, including shareholder rights, Sunrun’s approach to management compensation, and Board structure, please see Sunrun’s annual proxy statement, which is filed with the SEC and available on the company’s Investor Relations website at investors.sunrun.com. Consolidated Cash Balance,
unrestricted and restricted 
(in millions)Please see our periodic reports filed with the SEC and our 
quarterly earnings presentations available on our website at investors.sunrun.com for information about metrics and important notes regarding our financial statements.