ABOUT SUNRUNSunrun (Nasdaq:RUN) is the nation’s largest residential solar, storage, and energy services company. With a mission to create a planet run by the sun, Sunrun has led the industry since 2007 with its solar-as-a-service model, providing clean energy to households with little to no upfront cost and often at a savings compared to traditional electricity. The company designs, installs, finances, insures, monitors, and maintains the systems, while families receive predictable pricing for 20 years or more. Sunrun also offers a home solar-battery service, Brightbox, that manages household solar energy, storage, and utility power with smart inverter technology. For more information, please visit www.sunrun.com. ABOUT THIS REPORTOur mission is to create a planet run by the sun. This means that everyone, from solar installers and sales people to CEO Lynn Jurich, shows up to work because they are driven by passion and purpose. Yet mission alone does not make change. While we’ve been able to create a business out of our belief in a better, greener, and kinder planet, we also know that our purpose goes beyond putting solar panels on rooftops—it extends to our internal values as well. We believe in being global citizens with a responsibility to minimize our environmental impact in all aspects of our operations, providing a safe and diverse place to work for our employees, and ensuring robust corporate governance practices. For Sunrun, this is the definition of good business, and one that we believe will both drive the highest returns for our stakeholders and make the strongest long-term impact on society.This report is the first of its kind for our company. Its purpose is to evaluate and understand the impact of our internal and external practices on the world around us. We see this as a holistic tool for ourselves, our shareholders, our partners, and our customers to measure our success as a sustainably-focused business. VISION & VALUESA LETTER FROM LYNN & EDWhen we founded Sunrun in 2007, we knew that solar was going to be a breakthrough technology in the clean-energy revolution. Not only is it emissions-free and renewable, but it also works on an individual scale and benefited from massive cost improvements. We saw an opportunity to change a polluting, antiquated energy system into one that is local, responsive, and powered directly for and by consumers. We had a novel goal—we believed that solar could best be used in the hands of the consumer, establishing a more independent energy future. So while other players in the renewable-energy industry were focusing on using solar within the existing system—building big solar-power plants in the desert—we felt we could build a more efficient system and help households save money by enabling them to install solar and produce energy where it is used.We launched our solar-as-a-service business model that year. The idea is simple: Sunrun pays to install the system, owns and takes care of it, and then sells the electricity produced by the system to the household. From the start, this model underscored the way we’ve merged our company’s economic value with its social mission. The solar-as-a-service model democratizes solar, carving a path toward a future planet run by the sun. It didn’t take us long to find out that our hunch was right. Consumer demand has been strong and cost reductions significant. Today, Sunrun has more than 180,000 customers and sells solar-energy service in 23 states, contributing to the 1.5 million American families that have adopted home solar.1 Sunrun’s solar homes have already saved more than $200 million2 on their electricity bills, with the majority opting to make no upfront investment. At the same time, they are supporting their communities by creating local jobs, cleaner air, and a healthier environment. Sunrun’s deployed solar systems are expected to prevent 34 billion tons of greenhouse-gas emissions over their lifetimes, which is equivalent to taking more than 7 million passenger cars off the road for a full year. During the last decade, the solar industry has grown exponentially from a niche service to a source of energy for everyone. On average, Sunrun installs a solar-energy system somewhere in the United States once every three minutes,3 and this pace is accelerating. Sunrun is building a consumer-centered energy system, one where consumers are free to generate their own clean energy and have control over how and when it is used.Sunrun was built on faith in this future. We saw the potential for solar electricity in the United States and made an unwavering commitment to help others tap into that potential. That’s why we are investing in the latest industry developments, including bolstering the resilience and reliability of the U.S. energy system and advancing the adoption of home battery storage by adding it to our solar offering. We will never stop striving to be the company of choice for Americans who seek clean, reliable, and affordable energy freedom through solar electricity. LYNN JURICH				EDWARD FENSTERCo-founder and Chief Executive		Co-founder and Executive ChairmanEdward Fenster 
CO-FOUNDER
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANLynn Jurich 
CO-FOUNDER
CEOVISION & VALUESOUR CORE PHILOSOPHY AND 
VALUES STATEMENTOUR MISSION IS SIMPLE: TO CREATE A PLANET RUN BY THE SUN. 
This is an important step in confronting climate change, the biggest threat to our planet. We undertake this mission in accordance with our values. We use a human-centered approach to deliver solutions that are most impactful to creating a 
planet run by the sun. This core philosophy is complemented by the following values.No matter where you work or who you are at Sunrun, these traits drive every team member to come to work and do their best. As Sunrunners, we promise to embody these values every day and bring them to our customers and partners.OUR YEAR IN NUMBERSOUR YEAR IN NUMBERSWith Sunrun, going solar gives households the freedom to create their own energy and take control of their future. It’s also about protecting the planet for future generations to enjoy. Since 2007, we’ve grown from a startup with small but meaningful impacts on the energy system, to an industry leader with significant and growing impact. Sunrun is installing a new solar system EVERY 3 MINUTES.We have deployed 1,202 MEGAWATTS cumulatively to more than 
180,000 CUSTOMERS through 2017.Our systems have produced nearly 4 BILLION KILOWATT-HOURS
of clean energy since 2007.4 Customers have saved over $200 MILLION on electricity bills.5 Sunrun’s systems have prevented greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions 
totaling 2.7 MILLION METRIC TONS OF CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT (CO2e) from entering the atmosphere since 2007 an amount comparable to:•	Eliminating more than 6.6 billion passenger-vehicle miles•	Recycling nearly 1 million tons of garbage.•	Burning 303 million gallons of gasoline•	Consuming 6.2 million barrels of oil, •	Burning 1.36 million metric tons of coal.6OUR YEAR IN NUMBERSIn 2017, the estimated GHG emissions from our operations and the related operations of our partners and suppliers totaled 275,000 metric tons of CO2e. However, the systems we deployed in 2017 are expected to reduce GHG emissions by nearly 10 million metric tons of CO2e over their 30-year lifespan. Our total fleet of installed systems, which now exceeds 1,202 megawatts, is expected to reduce GHG emissions by more than 34 million metric tons of CO2e during its 
30-year lifecycle.EMISSION 
TYPESScope 1 
Emissions Company-operated vehicle fleet and on-site natural 
gas consumption for Sunrun and our partnersScope 2 
Emissions Purchased electricity for leased offices and warehouses for Sunrun 
and our partnersScope 3 
EmissionsSolar module 
manufacturing, balance of system (BOS) components, and supply chain2017 SYSTEM DEPLOYMENTS - NET CARBON BALANCEGHG AND CARBON MEASUREMENTSGREENHOUSE-GAS AND CARBON CALCULATIONS 2016 2017 Direct Emissions (Scope 1) + 
Electricity Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) 
(Thousand MT CO2e) 37 49 Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3) 
(Thousand MT CO2e) 198 227 Avoided Emissions Over 30 Years for 
Systems Deployed During the Year
(Thousand MT CO2e) (7,677) (9,293) Carbon Intensity per MW Deployed 
(Thousand MT CO2e per MW) 0.83 0.85 Fleet of Systems over 30 Years 
(Thousand MTs of CO2e Emissions Avoided) 34,500 2,000Thousand Metric Tons CO2e -2,000-4,000-6,000-8,000-10,000Spent Emissions from 
Sunrun Operations in 2017Reduced Emissions 
Over 30 Years for Systems Deployed in 2017OUR YEAR IN NUMBERSJOB CREATIONSunrun employs more than 3,200 people in the United States, and our partners and suppliers employ thousands more. We are proud to lead one of the fastest-growing sectors in the American economy, creating accessible jobs that make a positive impact on thousands of communities. SOLAR IS AN ECONOMIC ENGINEAs of 2017, more than 250,000 Americans work in the solar industry, a 168% increase since 2010.7 More than half of all solar workers are installers. According to data from the U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the solar installer will be the fastest growing job in America over the next decade.8In the past five years, solar employment grew nine times more than the U.S. economy as a whole, and one out of every 100 new jobs was in the solar industry. There are now more than 9,000 solar companies, which collectively employ Americans in every state.9 Domestic solar companies provide the kind of jobs that the United States needs most: well-paying jobs that can’t be exported or automated. Solar-industry wages remain competitive with similar industries and above the national average. Since the majority of solar jobs don’t require a bachelor’s degree,10 they represent a viable long-term career opportunity for the millions of Americans who haven’t finished college.“So many of our nation’s veterans are succeeding in solar because the industry values the traits servicemen and servicewomen learn in the military—teamwork, leadership, and dedication.” -JEFF SINCLAIR, U.S. ARMYSolar is also a valuable and growing field for military service members and veterans, an often-overlooked segment of the professional workforce. Veterans make up 9% of solar workers, while they only comprise 7% of the U.S. workforce as a whole.11 Jeff Sinclair, a former U.S. Army combat veteran and current senior training manager for Sunrun, said, “So many of our nation’s veterans are succeeding in solar because the industry values the traits servicemen and servicewomen learn in the military—teamwork, leadership, and dedication.”Finally, the solar industry strengthens local economies. About 25% of the costs of home-solar projects (for customer acquisition, installation labor, interconnection, and permitting) are spent locally. By comparison, large commercial projects only spend
about 6% of their costs on a local level.12 Sunrun employs more than 3,200 people in the United States, and our partners and suppliers employ thousands more. We are proud to lead one of the fastest-growing sectors in the American economy, creating accessible jobs that make a positive impact on thousands of communities.