Sunrun’s Environmental Impact Inaction on climate change threatens global security and stability, and responding with solutions has always been the driving force behind our company mission. Building a more local, human-centered energy system through home solar, battery storage, and other home electrification technologies is the foundation of our work. Sunrun is also committed to comprehensive environmental stewardship, including: • Supplier Responsibility: Sunrun vendors are subject to screening and audit based on environmental and social criteria. Please refer to our Vendor Code of Conduct for more information on the policy and our “Vendor Sustainability” section below. We recognize the importance of engaging our value chain partners to help drive emissions reduction efforts. This year we directly engaged with our strategic suppliers to obtain primary environmental data to understand their role in our emissions footprint and continue to engage key suppliers to drive emissions reduction efforts.  • Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention: Sunrun has made efforts to reduce or eliminate waste generation, hazardous waste release, greenhouse gas emissions, and to engage in product end-of-life stewardship. • Performance Evaluation and Reporting: We monitor performance and continue to enhance our reporting in accordance with prevailing sustainability reporting frameworks. We also believe the recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Disclosures (TCFD) provide a useful mechanism to increase transparency and climate-related disclosures. Our annual reporting informs interested stakeholders on environmental performance, and helps us identify priority areas for focus and improvement. • Employee Awareness: Employees are provided with opportunities to develop environmental knowledge and skills, empowering them to lessen personal adverse environmental impacts. Sunrun’s Climate Change Strategy In 2021, Sunrun further solidified its position as a global leader in solar deployment and environmental stewardship after successfully acquiring and integrating Vivint Solar. This transaction has accelerated the shift to a lower-carbon, more climate-resilient economy. As persistent climate risks and industry inertia disrupt or compromise operations—during the recent fires in California, East Coast hurricanes, and freeze-caused blackouts in Texas—we continue to assess and respond to current and future climate risks by leading on the electrification of the home, community, and transportation. Since 2007, Sunrun has deployed 4,677 megawatts of solar power which results in an estimated carbon avoidance of nearly 11.2 million metric tons. With more than 660,000 customers, we see a new system installed every one minute on average in workday minutes. This has created approximately $800 million in savings for our customers, who One thing this year’s report makes clear is our business has evolved see an average bill savings of 5-45%. beyond rooftop solar. We are now a leading residential solar, battery storage, home electrification, and grid services company. It is only through In more recent years, and in the face of increased outages nationwide, we’ve built on continued efforts to expand our products and services to our growing that solar foundation to offer a cleaner, more reliable, and more resilient approach to customer base, and to adhere to our evolving environmental and social energy. We now have more than 32,000 residential battery systems deployed—far policies, that we can provide more energy resiliency, sustainability, more than any other energy company—and are increasingly networking these together and control that will better insulate ourselves, our partners, and our to form valuable energy resources for the grid (such as virtual power plants) to offer communities from the consequences of unchecked climate change. greater potential for resiliency and precision over bulky centralized infrastructure. As the demand for electric vehicles continues to grow, and home electricity usage grows with it, Sunrun has begun teaming with leading automakers, like Ford Motor Company, to deliver options for an electrified future outside the walls of the home. Please see our periodic reports filed with the SEC and our quarterly earnings presentations available on our website at investors.sunrun.com for important information about our metrics and their definitions, as well as our financial statements. Energy Intensity (kWh/$M Revenue) 28,000 24,000 20,000 16,000 12,000 8,000 4,000 0 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Please see our periodic reports filed with the SEC and our quarterly earnings presentations available on our website at Emissions Intensity 1.00 0.90 0.80 0.70 0.60 0.50 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.10 0.00 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Emissions intensity (thousand MTCO2e/MW  Deployed) investors.sunrun.com for important information about our metrics and their definitions, as well as our financial statements. Emissions intensity (thousand MTCO2e/$M  Revenue) Positive Carbon Returns Once Sunrun’s solar energy systems begin operating, positive carbon returns accrue rapidly. Our deployed solar energy systems prevent more GHG emissions than they emit over their product life cycle, resulting in a net-positive carbon balance. After operating for just 17 months, a Sunrun solar energy system has produced enough clean energy to compensate for the emissions released during manufacturing and installation of the system. Because Sunrun’s systems are expected to produce clean energy for 30 years or longer, our systems prevent the release of harmful GHGs for 95% of their lifetime. Emissions Considered Carbon Payback Period (Years) Positive Carbon Returns (Years) Operations + Supply Chain 1.93 28.61 The energy generated by Sunrun’s cumulative  For each metric ton of CO2e that Sunrun emitted in 2021, the solar  For each metric ton of CO2e emitted by Sunrun in 2021, our  deployed systems of 4,677 megawatts, over their 30  energy systems that Sunrun deployed in 2021 are expected to  entire fleet of solar energy systems have produced enough  year life span, will have avoided the generation of  produce enough clean energy to avoid more than  clean energy to avoid approximately  98 million  21 metric tons of  14 metric tons of CO2e  metric tons of CO2e.  CO2e emissions over 30 years  from entering the atmosphere*  *This total has been updated since the original publication of our Impact Report to correct a tabulation error. 