Sunrun’s Governance2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  GOVERNANCEAppendixGlossary Customers refers to all residential homeowners 
(i) who have executed a Customer Agreement or cash sales agreement with us and (ii) for whom we have internal confirmation that the applicable solar system has reached notice to proceed, or “NTP,” net of cancellations.Customer Agreements refers to, collectively, solar power purchase agreements and solar leases.Megawatts Deployed represents the aggregate megawatt production capacity of our solar energy systems, whether sold directly to customers or subject to executed Customer Agreements (i) for which we have confirmation that the systems are installed on the roof, subject to final inspection, (ii) in the case of certain system installations by our partners, for which we have accrued at least 80% of the expected project cost, or (iii) for multi-family and any other systems that have reached NTP, measured on the percentage of the project that has been completed based on expected project cost.Notice to Proceed (NTP) refers to our internal confirmation that a solar energy system has met our installation requirements for size, equipment, and design.GHG Accounting Data Sources 
and MethodologyGHG EmissionsReported scope 1 emissions include vehicle fleet emissions, which are based on data from Sunrun’s fleet-management group, and emissions from on-site natural-gas consumption, which are based on average office and warehouse square footage figures outlined in the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s (U.S. EIA) 2012 Commercial Building Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS). An emissions factor in metric tons of CO2e per megawatt deployed was calculated for Sunrun’s operations across various eGRID regions and applied to partner megawatts deployed across various eGRID regions to estimate partners’ emissions attributable to their vehicle fleets and their natural-gas consumption in offices and warehouses.Reported scope 2 emissions include those from purchased electricity, which are calculated for both Sunrun and our partners in an analogous fashion to scope 1, using figures for office and warehouse square footage as outlined in the U.S. EIA’s 2012 CBECS. An emissions factor in metric tons of CO2e per megawatt deployed was calculated for Sunrun’s operations across various eGRID regions and applied to partner megawatts deployed across various eGRID regions to estimate partner emissions attributable to electricity consumed in offices and warehouses.Reported scope 3 emissions are based on a study by one of Sunrun’s major module suppliers, which outlines emissions figures for a module that aligns well with the average module wattage deployed by Sunrun over the reporting period. An additional 20% factor was added to this calculation to account for emissions attributable to balance-of-system (BOS) components, drawing from information in a 2011 report from the International Energy Agency, Life Cycle Inventories and Life Cycle Assessments of Photovoltaic Systems.Extended Carbon CalculationsCarbon balance calculations are based on derated expected production over 30 years and actual kilowatt-hour production to date. All kilowatt-hour values are translated into metric tons of CO2e emissions avoided using the GHG equivalencies calculator provided by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.The carbon payback period is derived by taking Sunrun’s carbon footprint, adding an additional 5% to account for product end use, and dividing that figure by watts deployed. This gives us the carbon footprint of the average system, which, when divided by the expected carbon offset of the average system after one year, results in the carbon payback period.	Calculations for the comparison to fossil fuel are based on average Sunrun system size deployed, expected average system production derated at 0.06% per year over 30 years, and Surnun’s carbon footprint. Fossil-fuel figures for other sources of energy were taken from a 2013 study by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), Life Cycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Electricity Generation.Calculations for prevented air pollution and water consumption are derived from expected average system production derated at 0.06% per year over 30 years for systems deployed in 2016 through 2019. Energy production was equated to prevented air pollutants and water consumption using information provided by the U.S. Geological Survey4 and eGRID’s Year 2010 Summary Tables.