Societal Impact Year 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 3.92 3.21 2.27 1.66 2.65 Lost-time Incident Rate (LTIR) 0.76 0.37 0.41 0.17 0.54 Work-related Fatalities (WRF) 1001 1 Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred Rate (DART) 2.96 2.41 1.87 1.3 2.03 Inclusion & Diversity At Sunrun, we’re obsessed with our customers and our mission to electrify their homes and transportation through an abundant, renewable energy resource. That is only made possible by having a team that understands our customers and what their energy needs may be. This can’t be accomplished without a diverse team that reflects our customers and who can connect with their experiences and backgrounds. We believe it’s critically important to have an inclusive culture where everyone can perform their best and contribute new ideas. That inclusive culture starts with a commitment to respect and humility. We respect individuals for who they are and acknowledge we’re only going to grow by being open to learning about the experiences of others. We are setting the expectations that everyone, at every level of the organization, is teams are diverse, we’ll make better decisions for our planet, our customers and our employees. Sunrun believes in respecting and appreciating the unique cultures and celebrations of our employees. In addition to our company holidays, we also provide employees a flexible holiday to recognize and observe culturally significant and religious observance holidays that are important to them. These include options for Lunar New Year, Vaisakhi, Easter, Eastern Orthodox Easter, Eid al-Fitr, Eid al-Adha, Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur, Indigenous Peoples Day, Diwali, and Veterans Day. Beginning in 2020, we also added Juneteenth as a recognized company holiday. responsible for cultivating a more inclusive workplace. By intentionally practicing inclusion and ensuring our Page 34 Employee Programming In 2021, we continued to focus on employee programming that addressed a wide variety of interests and topics. Our monthly Candid Conversations, Why Language Matters podcast, and Critical Conversations addressed current events and communications to support employee wellness and  mental health. • Candid Conversations are a monthly livestream for all employees to encourage and guide discussions about difficult topics in a psychologically safe environment. Some of the topics in 2021 included Allyship and Anti-racism; Mental Health and Illness; Military to Civilian Life Transition; and English as a 2nd Language. • Podcasts were started to help bring content to our employees in a format that is easier for them to engage. Some of the topics in 2021 included Gendered Language and The Danger of Colorblind Thinking. In addition, all of the monthly livestream Candid Conversations are converted to podcast format for employees to listen when most convenient for them. • In 2021, we also hosted Critical Conversations in response to recent societal events. This included Microaggressions in the AAPI Community in response to attacks on the elderly Asian community. • Monthly mental health reminders and wellness events are shared with employees to reiterate the importance of leaders to check in with their teams and ensure self care for all of our people. Talent Acquisition and Talent Management Sunrun is proud to be an equal opportunity employer that does not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any kind. Our commitment to Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging drives our ability to build diverse teams and develop inclusive work environments. At Sunrun, we believe empowering people and valuing their differences will help us create a planet run by the sun for everyone. We are committed to sustaining our focus of hiring, supporting and elevating more women and BIPOC employees across all levels and functions. This includes continuing to identify and invest in partnerships that help us recruit from a more representative talent pool and ensuring that we consider a diverse slate of candidates when recruiting for our most senior level roles. In 2021, we accelerated our efforts to hire those who have served our country. Sunrun was selected to be the first national solar company to participate in the Department of Defense’s SkillBridge program. The program provides opportunities to launch careers after returning from active duty, for both servicemen and women. In addition, Sunrun became the first solar company to be approved for the Military Spouse Employment Program (MSEP) to provide opportunities to spouses of our serving servicemen and women. At Sunrun, we believe investing in the career growth of our employees is paramount to developing and maintaining our competitive advantage. In 2021, we identified multiple opportunities to support that objective including sponsoring six employees who identify as Black+ to attend the Executives Leadership Councils Mid-Level Managers Symposium; sponsored eight employees who identify as LGBTQ+ to attend the Out & Equal Workplace Summit; and sponsored five employees who identify as women to attend the Women of Renewable Industries and Sustainable Energy Conference. In partnership with McKinsey & Company, we also nominated 66 employees to participate in the McKinsey Leadership Academies for employees who identify as Asian, Black and Hispanic or Latino. These Leadership Academies include a six-month Management Accelerator Program and a three-month Executive Leadership Program. 