Vision & Values About Sunrun Sunrun Inc. (Nasdaq: RUN) is the nation’s leading home solar, battery storage, and energy services company. Founded in 2007, Sunrun pioneered home solar service plans to make local clean energy more accessible to everyone for little to no upfront cost. Sunrun’s innovative home battery solutions bring families affordable, resilient, and reliable energy. The company can also manage and share stored solar energy from the batteries to provide benefits to households, utilities, and the electric grid while reducing our reliance on polluting energy sources. For more information, please visit www.sunrun.com Page 5 Our Customers Sunrun provides home solar and battery storage services from coast to coast, in 22 states plus Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia.. We proudly serve more than 660,000 customers across the country and are growing rapidly. Our Impact Our solar energy systems have generated 20 billion kilowatt-hours of clean energy since 2007 and have helped avoid 11.2 million metric tons of CO2e from entering the atmosphere.. This is the equivalent of carbon dioxide emissions from approximately 12.4 billion pounds of coal, or 1.3 billion gallons of gasoline. Page 7 Avoiding the worst impacts of climate change depends on a rapid global transformation of our energy systems. Our work at Sunrun to deploy local solar, battery storage, and other home electrification technologies at scale will accelerate our ability to meet our decarbonization goals. We are creating the foundation for households across the country to Committing to use and benefit from access to more reliable, affordable, and clean energy.  Our Future ESG Goals At Sunrun, we pledge to continue our commitment to sustainability. Consistent with Sunrun’s core values, our leadership has committed to several goals for our environmental and societal development. In 2021, we set multiple long-term corporate ESG goals, and each year in connection with the publication of our annual Impact Report, we intend to provide an update on progress made for those goals, as well as any newly established goals. GOAL 1.  Sunrun is committed to mitigatingthe impacts of anthropogenic climate change. GOAL 2.  Sunrun is committed to building adiverse, fair, and equitable workforce. ACTION Embed the principles of diversity, inclusion, and belonging as implicit in everything we do and sustain our focus on pay equity through periodic review. Foster the growth of our Employee Resource Groups to support inclusion and belonging among our employees, improve awareness, and drive greater social impact. Foster a diverse workforce that represents our customers and the communities in which we live and work, by (i) increasing the representation of employees who identify as women in Director and above roles by 50% and increasing our Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) representation in manager roles by 25% by the end of 2025 to (ii) reach gender parity in Director and above roles  and BIPOC representation parity in Manager roles by the end of 2030. STATUS On Track On Track Updated Goal NOTES As we work toward our 2030 parity goals, we are establishing processes to ensure diverse candidate slates and diverse interview panels. Additionally, we are participating on the solar industry’s Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Justice Leadership Council to stay up to date on best hiring practices and contribute to benchmarking efforts. As of December 31, 2021, we had six Employee Resource Groups: Asian+, Black+, Latinx+, Pride+, Veterans+ and Women’s+These have grown to approximately 1,200 employees, a 40% increase over the prior year. In March 2022, we launched our seventh Employee Resource Group, Disability+, focused on supporting individuals with a disability. Due to certain changes in our employee base resulting from our acquisition of Vivint Solar and other demographic changes during the COVID-19 pandemic, we have determined that certain previously set representation goals required review. In light of a re-assessment of our current employee base, we have established new goals to achieve gender parity in Director and above roles and BIPOC parity in Manager roles by 2030. GOAL 3.  Sunrun is committed to improvingenvironmental equity and justice. ACTION STATUS NOTES Contribute 100,000 employee volunteer On Track During 2022, we intend to implement a new platform for hours by the end of 2030. organizing additional volunteer opportunities. Bring at least 500 megawatts of low-income On Track During 2021, we successfully advocated for expanded low-income solar to people across the country by the end solar programs in several states, in addition to continuing to of 2030, benefiting hundreds of thousands of expand our programs directly installing solar in such communities. residents in disadvantaged communities. Environment Sunrun’s impact on the environment Our Impact in Numbers 20 Billion Cumulative kilowatt-hours of clean energy produced since 1.1 Minutes How often a new Sunrun system is installed. 4,677 Megawatts Cumulative amount of Networked Solar Energy Capacity deployed since 2007, making Sunrun one of the largest solar companies in the world 4.6 billion Kilowatt-hours of clean energy produced in 2021 Customers Sunrun’s impact on energy consumers Our Impact in Numbers $800 MILLION The amount of savings we have provided to our customers 32,000 Total number of Sunrun home battery systems installed across the U.S. 5-45% Typical bill savings for Sunrun customers 660,000 Total number of Sunrun customers across the U.S. Sunrun’s impact on the community through its completed and contracted low-and-moderateOur Impact in Numbers Community income multifamily work $13.5 MILLION Estimated total value of anticipated annual solar savings directly to tenants in affordable housing units 5,700 Total hours of solar job 500training for residents in disadvantaged communities Number of low-and-moderate in 2021 income projects supported by Sunrun 115,000 Low-and-moderate income residents across 38,500 housing units 105,000 Anticipated megawatt-hours of clean solar energy produced per year through low-and.moderate income installations Please see our periodic reports filed with the SEC and our quarterly earnings presentations available on our website at investors.sunrun.com for important information about our metrics and their definitions, as well as our financial statements. 