Environmental StewardshipReducing GHG EmissionsSunrun’s solar energy systems offset GHG emissions every moment that they deliver clean energy to our customers. During 2018, we deployed more than 372 megawatts of solar to more than 49,000 customers. These systems could generate nearly 14 billion kilowatt-hours of clean energy during the next 30 years, enough to prevent the emission of nearly 10 million metric tons of CO2e (based on estimates from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency). This quantity is more than 33 times greater than the quantity of CO2e emitted to deploy these systems, which means that Sunrun negates significantly more emissions than we produce. Sunrun’s GHG emissions estimates draw on the guidance provided in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.15 Our emissions inventory includes direct (scope 1), indirect (scope 2), and other indirect (scope 3) emissions, covering emissions attributable to Sunrun’s company-owned and -operated vehicle fleet, occupied offices and warehouse space, equipment-lifecycle considerations and the supporting activities of our partners. We prepared our first emissions inventory in 2017 and have applied the same methodology in preparing our 2018 inventory so the two 
can be compared readily. Please refer to the Appendix for more details on our calculations and the assumptions behind them.Carbon Emissions IntensityGreenhouse Gas Emissions294300Thousand MT CO2e275Thousand MT CO2e per MW deployed0.850.832350.792001000201620162017201820172018Total Emissions from OperationsDirect Emissions (Scope 1) + 
Electricity Indirect Emissions (Scope 2)Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3)Emission TypesSCOPE 1 EMISSIONS
Vehicle fleet and on-site natural gas consumption 
for Sunrun and our partnersSCOPE 2 EMISSIONS
Leased offices and warehouses of Sunrun and our partnersSCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
Module manufacturing, balance-of-system (BOS)
components, and material transportation21Environmental StewardshipEnergy Consumption 20182017301250kMJ per MW deployedTJTJ125k15.5000Electricity ConsumedNatural Gas ConsumedEnergy Intensity*excludes partner operations and installationsPositive Carbon ReturnsOnce Sunrun’s solar energy systems begin operating, positive carbon returns accrue rapidly. We have calculated that our deployed solar energy systems prevent more GHG emissions than they emit over their product life cycle, resulting in a net-positive carbon balance. After operating for just 10 months, a Sunrun solar energy system will prevent the emission of as much GHGs as were emitted to build and install the system. Because Sunrun’s systems are expected to produce clean energy for 30 years, our systems prevent the release of harmful GHGs for 97% of
their lifetime.Carbon Payback Period Lifespan (30 years)POSITIVE CARBON RETURN (29.15 Years)CARBON PAYBACK PERIOD (0.85 Years)*Emissions Considered: Operations + Supply Chain + End-of-UseSunrun’s cumulative 
deployed systems of 
1,575 megawatts
 are estimated to offset more than 
41 million metric tons
of CO2e emissions
over 30 years.For each metric ton of CO2e that Sunrun emitted in 2018, the solar energy systems that Sunrun deployed in 2018 are expected
 to prevent more than
 33 metric tons
 of CO2e emissions 
over 30 years.For each metric ton of CO2e
 emitted by Sunrun in 2018, our entire fleet of solar energy systems has already prevented more than 
12 metric tons 
of CO2e emissions 
from entering the atmosphere.22|2018 IMPACT REPORT Environmental StewardshipPreserving Clean Air and WaterSolar energy offers a means of preventing emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, methane, and ozone that result from the combustion of fossil fuels. The electricity produced by systems that Sunrun deployed in 2018 effects a meaningful reduction of these harmful pollutants by lowering households’ consumption of fossil-fuel electricity. In addition, solar and other renewable sources of electricity emit fewer GHG emissions per kilowatt-hour during their lifecycles than fossil fuels.16,17In addition to preventing the release of air pollutants, Sunrun systems do not consume large amounts of freshwater like fossil-fuel power plants do. Cooling traditional power plants requires the withdrawal of more freshwater reserves than any other activity. Solar energy production helps lessen this freshwater consumption by reducing the use of energy from thermoelectric sources.Air Pollution Prevented and Freshwater Conserved TYPE OF EMISSIONS(Thousand MT Co2e) 2016 2017 2018 Since2008 Nitrogen Oxide (Metric Tons Prevented) 569,000 793,000 1,041,000 33,451,000 Ozone (Metric Tons Prevented) 620 860 1,130 3,626 Sulfur Dioxide (Metric Tons Prevented) 1,390 1,940 2,540 2,400 Water Consumption (Avoided Millions of Gallons) 17 24 31 101 GHG Emissions Comparison GENERATION SOURCE CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS (g/kWh) Sunrun System 21 Coal 979 Natural Gas 470 |2018 IMPACT REPORT Environmental StewardshipEnvironmental ManagementWe offer clean, reliable, and affordable solar and home battery solutions as an alternative to energy sources powered by environmentally damaging fossil fuels. While our products and services emit fewer GHG emissions than they prevent, the broader environmental footprint of our operations must also be considered. As the largest solar provider in the United States, we hold ourselves accountable for managing all our environmental impacts in a way that improves the wellbeing of the planet.That is why we are committed to developing and implementing an environmental policy and an environmental management system (EMS) that prioritize continual improvement, as specified by the ISO 14001 management standard. We also study our environmental impacts across our value chain so that we can define environmental performance metrics and improvement targets.Equipment RecyclingAs we deploy more systems, we also bear a greater responsibility for managing the end of the systems’ useful lives. We are integrating product end-of-life considerations into our EMS and are preparing to decommission, recycle, resell, or redeploy our energy systems. Sunrun uses monocrystalline and multicrystalline photovoltaic modules, thereby avoiding the mounting concerns about hazardous materials present in alternative chemistries such as thin-film modules. We are prepared to sustainably dispose of modules, batteries, inverters, and other electronic equipment used in installations through partnerships with third-party recycling and refurbishment vendors. These vendors are certified under the Responsible Recyclers R2:2013, OHSAS 1800:2007, and ISO 14001:2007 standards.FacilitiesWith 51 facilities across 16 states, Sunrun adheres to a framework of sustainable policies for its built environment. These policies encourage environmental conservation, including the reduction of GHG emissions, and contribute to employees’ comfort and wellbeing.We recognize the first step is to build and operate our facilities in a manner that maintains a high level of environmental efficiency. We are proud that our two largest corporate facilities (San Francisco and Denver) are both LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certified, while another corporate facility in Scottsdale is BOMA (Building Owner and Manager Association) certified. Standard design specifications that call for low-VOC (volatile organic compounds) coatings, flooring made from 100% post-consumer-use materials, and Energy Star appliances and office equipment also help ensure a uniform implementation of our sustainability framework for facilities. Additionally, over 74% of our facilities have traditional, pallet, and e-waste recycling.We have investigated the energy use and cost reductions from replacing traditional fluorescent lighting with LED lighting and using occupancy sensors and light dimmers. In a pilot study at one facility, these equipment changes reduced energy consumption by 43%. Building on this finding, we are exploring options to install LED lighting and adopt other energy-saving measures at additional facilities.Sunrun has also set in motion national contracts and programs to foster transparency, efficiency, and consistency. We are establishing contracts for solid-waste oversight and the collection of batteries and fluorescent light bulbs. A national contract for integrated pest management and regional contracts for quarterly maintenance of HVAC (heating, ventilation, and air conditioning) systems have been established for all facilities to maximize energy efficiency and cost reductions.One of our objectives for 2019 is to engage Sunrun employees in the pursuit of improvements in environmental performance. We are developing standard sustainability labels that will be implemented across the company’s facilities. These labels are meant to promote employee awareness and set behavioral expectations and best practices in waste reduction, recycling, composting, water conservation, and energy efficiency. Vehicle FleetSunrun’s vehicle fleet continues to expand as we grow and enter new markets. In line with our commitment to environmental sustainability, Sunrun will ensure that all the sedans we add to our fleet, including sedans used in sales and branch operations, are hybrid models. Prior to 2018, only 9% of our vehicles were hybrids. Considering all planned vehicle retirements and purchases, this number will climb to 47% by early 2019. Transitioning to hybrids will lead to a number of benefits including reduced emissions of ozone-depleting substances and GHGs, improved vehicle longevity, and fuel cost savings.Additionally, Sunrun-operated fleet vehicles will be outfitted with new telematics systems that will allow for further operational improvements. The telematics systems will enhance driver safety by identifying and tracking unwanted behaviors such as hard braking, speeding, and rapid acceleration. It will also allow us to track vehicle travel patterns across our operations, leading to future opportunities for route optimization. Together, these developments will result in a safer, more efficient, and environmentally responsible vehicle fleet.As the largest solar provider in the United States, we hold ourselves accountable for managing all our environmental impacts in a way that improves the wellbeing 
of the planet.|2018 IMPACT REPORT Environmental StewardshipEnvironmental StewardshipVendor SustainabilitySunrun works with vendors that share our commitment to creating a better, greener, and kinder planet. That’s why we included policies on environmental protection and sustainability as well as responsible mineral sourcing in our first Vendor Code of Conduct, which we adopted in January 2019. Responsible Mineral SourcingSunrun expects its vendors to provide our company only with products that contain responsibly sourced commodities. Vendors that supply products containing minerals (including but not limited to cobalt, wolframite [titanium], cassiterite [tin], tungsten, and gold) sourced from conflict-affected and high-risk areas must ensure that the sourcing of these minerals does not knowingly contribute, directly or indirectly, to armed conflict, including terrorist financing or human-rights violations. Sunrun expects vendors to source minerals in a manner consistent with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Sunrun recognizes that cobalt, a mineral used in some types of batteries, presents an increased risk of being sourced from areas associated with unfair labor practices. Because of this, we choose to work with battery manufacturers that share our commitment to responsible mineral sourcing. Additionally, Sunrun will evaluate battery innovations that may further reduce the mineral content of batteries.Partnering with 
LG ChemWe are proud to partner with LG Chem, a subsidiary of LG, as a provider of batteries for our Brightbox systems. LG promotes human rights, safe working environments, ethical behavior in procurement, and robust management systems through its supplier code of conduct and is considered a leader in supply-chain responsibility. LG’s Green Program Plus is a program aimed at helping the company’s suppliers to improve their environmental performance and their management of supply-chain risks. LG is also recognized by the UN Global Compact for its policies to prevent the use of conflict minerals or derivative metals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo.