Vision and ValuesA Letter from 
Our FoundersSince we started Sunrun 12 years ago, the energy industry has changed dramatically. Our belief that we need to build a safer, cleaner, more resilient, and more equitable energy system has not. Nor has our commitment to embracing sustainability and responsibility in all aspects of our operations. We address society’s needs through the work we do and the way we run our company: by creating meaningful local jobs and equitable opportunities, contributing to healthier communities, and offering services that improve the environmental health of our planet. Our approach is to benefit everyone: our customers, our employees, and the communities in which we operate, as well as our business and financial partners.We remain excited about the path ahead and our ability to continue to affect positive change. Solar panel and battery costs have dropped significantly, while the cost to move energy across heavy transmission lines from centralized locations has continued to increase. We’ve worked tirelessly to make solar and batteries both affordable and accessible, goals that we will pursue in 2019 and beyond. By using panels on the roof to generate solar power and a battery in the garage to store it, we are building a cleaner and more resilient energy future. Emissions-free, local power is a win-win-win for customers, utility companies, and policymakers alike by ensuring that energy can be shared during outages and times of peak use. America’s solar journey has steadily brought us closer to building a planet run by the sun, and all along, we have remained optimistic. That’s because Americans want clean energy. This was the main finding from a recent survey commissioned by the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), a utility trade group. The study found that 74% of those polled believe we should be using solar “as much as possible,” and that consumers reject the idea that power can be either reliable or clean but not both. When the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) released its climate report at the end of 2018, the conclusions reiterated the consensus on the urgent necessity of clean power, pushing us further to develop new energy solutions and business models. The planet is warming, but energy consumers and providers are both choosing a path toward clean, reliable, and renewable power. To be optimistic is not to say we are unaware of the challenges we face over the next few decades. Rather, we are encouraged to see the sheer volume of people who are demanding change. In the words of climate and energy reporter David Roberts, “It’s going to get worse, but nobody gets to give up hope or stop fighting.”Those words never rang truer than in 2018, which marked another year of strong growth and innovation for our company. Sunrun is proud to be the nation’s leading residential solar, storage and energy services company, delivering clean, affordable solar energy to more than 233,000 households throughout the nation. This year we also brought our home solar service to Illinois and Puerto Rico, and we expanded our offerings in Florida and Massachusetts. Above all, we have progressed towards making solar affordable and accessible to people across the country. Sunrun has committed to develop a minimum of 100 megawatts of solar on affordable multi-family housing, where 80% of tenants fall below 60% of the area median income, during the next decade. This commitment will directly benefit at least 50,000 households, and we intend to expand these programs in other states. The most harmful impacts of climate change are felt by the most vulnerable communities, and so our vision of a just and clean energy future starts with them.Looking forward, it’s clear that home solar and batteries will play a key role in our future energy system. Since launching Brightbox in late 2017, we’ve installed nearly 5,000 home batteries across the country, and we are seeing an increase in consumers who are eager to create and store their own power. By keeping the lights on in homes and communities during extreme weather, home solar and batteries can build a safer, more reliable energy system for everyone. The opportunity to take that power and build a community energy network, in concert with utility partners across the nation, will usher in a new era of clean, resilient power.Our ValuesThere is a revolution happening in the energy industry, and Sunrun is leading it. Our MissionOur mission is simple: to create a planet run by the sun. This is an important step in confronting climate change, 
the biggest threat to our planet. According to the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), we could meet 40% of our nation’s energy needs with rooftop solar alone.1 Now is the time to undertake this mission in accordance with our values. We use a human-centered approach to deliver solutions that do the most to fulfill our mission. This core philosophy is complemented by our values.Our VisionWe believe that home energy should be yours to control. You can harness the sun’s abundant energy to power the coffee maker in the morning. You can store that energy and light up the dining room at night. With solar panels on your roof and batteries in your home, power is in your hands. Our climate is changing, and our energy system needs to change with it. Delivering electricity across long power lines from big power plants causes more power outages, rate increases, and dangerous conditions. At Sunrun, we know there is a better way. By generating and storing energy in our homes, we can share power across neighborhoods and our entire energy system. We have been building this future for over a decade, and every year it grows brighter.Now is the time to make your own energy. Share it with your neighbors. Build a clean, affordable, reliable energy future for the whole nation. Let’s change the way we power our lives.3Vision and ValuesOur approach is to benefit everyone: our customers, our employees, and the communities in which 
we operate, as well as 
our business and financial partners.Lynn JurichCo-founder
Chief Executive Officer	Edward FensterCo-founder 
Executive ChairmanVision and ValuesHuman-centeredHumanity is at the core of our business—our customers,our team, and our partners are all incredible human beings.IntegrityTo be on our team means to operate with absolute integrity.CuriosityOur team has boundless curiosity.PassionPassion is an irresistible driving force 
at Sunrun.CourageWe exhibit courage and fortitude.ImpactThe work we are doing as a team will forever alter the world.No matter where you work or who you are at Sunrun, these traits drive us all to come 
to work and do our 
best. As Sunrunners, we promise to embody these values every 
day and bring them to our customers.Our ImpactOur Year in Numbers With Sunrun, going solar gives households the freedom to create their own energy and take control of their energy future. It’s also about protecting the planet for future generations and creating quality jobs in our communities. Since 2007, we’ve grown from a startup with small but meaningful impacts on the energy system, to an industry leader with significant and growing impact. Sunrun installs a new solar system 
every 2.3 minutes 
on average.We have deployed 
1,575 megawattsand now have
 233,000 customers
as of the end of 20186|2018 IMPACT REPORT Our ImpactSunrun’s systems have prevented greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions totaling
3.7 million 
metric tons 
of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e), 
an amount comparable toWe have installed nearly 
5,000 
Brightbox systems 
thus far and expect solar with Brightbox installations to grow quicker than solar-only.OR eliminating more than
9 billion
passenger vehicle milesrecycling nearly 
1.3 million
tons of waste.4Our systems have produced 
over 5 billion
kilowatt-hours of clean energy.2The GHG emissions prevented by Sunrun’s systems through 2018 are also comparable to the emissions prevented by not burningSunrun’s systems have allowed consumers to save more than
$300 million
on electricity bills.3OR421 million
gallons of gasoline1.86 million
metric tons of coal57Our ImpactIn 2018, Sunrun was recognized by Comparably forBest Company Culture, Best CEO, & Best Company for Women.Fortune magazine named our CEO Lynn Jurich 
one of the 40 Under 40 in business. Sunrun supported GRID Alternatives 
in installing more than 2,000 home solar systems
over the past few years. These installations 
have prevented the emission of more than 
120,000 tons of GHGs into the atmosphere 
and will save our customers more than 
$64 million in energy costs 
over their lifetimes.6As part of our commitment to being global 
citizens and doing business legally and 
ethically, we adopted our first ever 
Vendor Code of Conduct
on January 1, 2019.Sunrun announced a commitment 
to develop a minimum of
100 megawatts of solar 
on affordable multi-family housing, where 
80% of tenants fall below 60% of the area median income, over the next decade in California. This will directly benefit 
more than 50,000 families.Sunrun committed to and achieved 
100% gender pay parity 
for its employees in 2018, becoming the 
first national solar company to do so.Sunrun negates significantly more emissions than we produce, making Sunrun one of the few companies in America that has a negative carbon footprint.Our ImpactIn 2018, the estimated GHG emissions from our operations and the related operations of our partners and suppliers totaled 294,000 metric tons of CO2e. Furthermore, the systems we deployed in 2018 are expected to reduce GHG emissions by nearly 10 million metric tons of CO2e over 30 years. Our total fleet of installed systems, which exceeds 1,575 megawatts, is expected to reduce GHG emissions by more than 41 million metric tons of CO2e over 30 years. Sunrun negates significantly more emissions than we produce, making Sunrun one of the few companies in America that has a negative carbon footprint.2018 System Deployments - Net Carbon BalanceThousand Metric Tons CO2e 2,000294 -9,768-2,000-4,000-6,000-8,000-10,000Spent Emissions 
from Sunrun Operations 
in 2018Reduced Emissions
over 30 Years for 
Systems Deployed in 2018See page 19 for further details on emissions and our environmental impact along with the method used for each calculation.9Making Solar Affordable 
and AccessibleThe American public wants 100% renewable energy, and Sunrun can and will be a catalyst for this future. Our commitment to making solar affordable and accessible for all is evident in our business model, our efforts to reaching low- and moderate-income Americans, and the public 
policy work we’ve done throughout the year. We believe solar power should be available to everyone, and we work every day to make this ambition a reality. This fundamental idea shapes both Sunrun’s business philosophy and the 
ethical and ideological basis of what we do. The idea of 
harnessing the 
sun’s energy is 
inherently equitable—and one that should 
be a universal 
right to pursue.