WELLNESSIn addition to healthcare, vision, dental and 401(k) plans, Sunrun offers all full-time employees an array of comprehensive health and wellness benefits. We keep these benefits cost-effective for employees, regularly leading our industry peers in the quality and the cost of benefit plans. These benefits include:•	Weight Watchers memberships•	Discounted health-club memberships •	Health webinars •	Smoking cessation programs•	Blood drives•	Stress-relief services •	On-site flu shots and wellness checks at our major population locations•	Tele-medicine services for fast assistance with general health needs•	A partnership with One Medical 
for concierge healthcare services in San Francisco with plans to expand the offering to other locations with a large population 
of our employees.RECRUITMENTDiversity and inclusion are a fundamental priorities for our recruitment function. Sourcing, identifying, and engaging a diverse candidate pool helps Sunrun secure a qualified and diverse workforce. Sunrun’s diversity and inclusion program manager works with the talent acquisition function to ensure that equality and fairness are upheld in our recruitment strategies and hiring initiatives. In an effort to increase the population of underrepresented groups in our workforce, Sunrun successfully piloted a diversity metric for candidate interviews for the sales organization. Our goal was to increase overall the applicant pool by 50% in order to boost diversity in sales hires. As a result of tracking the diversity of candidates, the company hired 62% more women for sales positions in the third quarter of 2017 than it did in the third quarter of 2016. MILITARY VETERANS AND SERVICE MEMBERS The Solar Foundation reported that veterans made up 9% of solar workers in 2017, but only 7% of the overall U.S. workforce. Veterans and active service members have a skill set that is readily transferable to the solar industry. Their leadership, discipline, dedication, and technical abilities are invaluable for securing and sustaining clean energy. Sunrun views the veteran population as a vital but underused resource and has chosen to make veterans a major focus of the company’s recruiting efforts. At Sunrun, eligible active duty, guard, and reserve employees receive 10 paid days per year for military duty or leave. This allotment exceeds government and USERRA requirements. Additionally, Sunrun has established a Veteran Affairs Board, consisting of veterans at or above management level, to oversee veteran affairs in the areas of diversity and inclusion, recruitment, and public policy. In 2017, Jeff Sinclair, senior leadership development manager and Veteran Affairs Board member, spoke about solar tariffs and the importance of solar jobs during the SEIA Save Solar Jobs press conference in Washington, DC.Sunrun’s plans for the near future are to launch an employee-referral program for veterans, develop a military-transition webinar, and set up other workforce and apprenticeship programs for veterans. We also have plans to establish a national support group for veterans working at Sunrun and their families. 