Making Solar Affordable and AccessibleLeading the ChargePromoting Affordable, Clean, Reliable EnergySunrun plays an important role in growing and protecting the rights of solar energy consumers by supporting federal, state, and local government efforts aimed at transitioning into the clean, climate-resilient energy economy of the future. These efforts promote solar energy with rebates, tax credits, and other financial incentives that enable Sunrun to lower its prices and catalyze Americans’ adoption of solar energy.During 2018, Sunrun successfully influenced the adoption of several key measures supporting solar and home battery deployments, helping to build energy equity by increasing access to clean solar energy for low- and moderate-income communities while opening doors to new markets well suited to benefit from our products and services.Increasing Access to SolarSunrun is committed to increasing access to solar and home batteries. We constantly seek opportunities to maximize state and local rebate programs for low-income families. For the past six years, we have partnered with GRID Alternatives (GRID) to bring more solar to low-income families in California, the Mid-Atlantic, and the Midwest. In 2018, we expanded our partnership with GRID to support the Solar Equity Initiative spearheaded by the NAACP (National Association for the Advancement of Colored People) to bring more solar to low-income communities of color, thereby pursuing our commitments to access, equity, and diversity. We also launched our initiative to bring solar to residents of multi-family affordable housing in California. Sunrun’s customers have saved over $300 million on electricity bills, with the majority of them making no upfront investment.7 At the same time, they support their communities by helping create local jobs, clean air, and a healthier environment. Sunrun is building a consumer-centered energy system that doesn’t leave anyone behind.Creating Healthier CommunitiesA study from the Clean Air Task Force and the NAACP found that although disadvantaged people consume the least energy per capita, they are disproportionately affected by pollution from fossil-fuel energy production. This pollution can cause people to suffer short- and long-term health complications, such as asthma, allergies, and cancer, and to experience higher mortality rates. In fact, 138,000 asthma attacks leading to over 100,000 missed school days annually can be attributed to the oil and gas industries.8 With compromised immune systems and limited resources, men, women, and children in these communities are much less likely to take advantage of educational and career opportunities, which traps them in the cycle of social injustice exacerbated by climate change. Increased use of clean energy from rooftop solar and home batteries will reduce GHG emissions and harmful pollution from fossil fuels, thereby helping alleviate smog, acid rain, water contamination, and climate change.California In 2018, Sunrun committed to developing 100 megawatts of solar on affordable housing in California by 2028, which will directly benefit over 50,000 households. Sunrun has installed solar energy systems on affordable multi-family dwellings through the California Public Utilities Commission’s Multi-Family Affordable Solar Housing (MASH) program and will continue to serve affordable multi-family residents through MASH’s successor program, Solar on Multi-Family Affordable Housing (SOMAH). Sunrun’s commitment aims to satisfy one-third of the SOMAH program’s goal of 300 megawatts of solar on affordable housing by 2030. SOMAH was developed by Assemblymember Susan Eggman, who commended Sunrun’s commitment to the program, saying, “It has taken years of work from stakeholders, staff, and the CPUC to get this program running, and I look forward to getting it launched as soon as possible.” Eggman added, “This policy was designed to ensure that families in low-income and disadvantaged communities can also reap the benefits of the booming solar energy industry in California, and the closer we get to these first installations, the closer the benefits are to these deserving families.”Nevada Under Nevada’s RenewableGenerations rebate program, Sunrun offers a discounted price on home solar systems to families with a household income below 80% of the area median income. Because eligible households receive twice the incentive to go solar that other households receive, the program has significantly expanded access to Sunrun’s solar service offering.ConnecticutIn 2018, Sunrun installed 124 projects under the Connecticut Green Bank’s low-to-moderate-income (LMI) incentive program. This effort supports Connecticut’s push to expand residential solar into the LMI markets and to ensure that the state’s 300-megawatt renewable energy target benefits households at 
all income levels.12|2018 IMPACT REPORT GRID
AlternativesSunrun’s policy team installs solar on a family home in Oakland in January 2018.Partnership with GRID AlternativesIn 2018, Sunrun expanded its partnership with GRID Alternatives (GRID), which greatly helped GRID to reach 
the historic milestone of bringing solar to 10,000 families who need it most. GRID is a national leader in making 
solar power and jobs accessible to underserved communities. The partnership between Sunrun and GRID, now in
its sixth year, supports job training and solar installations for low-income families and traditionally 
underrepresented communities. In 2018, Sunrun and GRID outfitted 1,000 low-income families with 4.5 megawatts of solar installations, which are expected to provide these families with $25 million in lifetime savings. These solar projects have also prevented 56,000 tons of GHG emissions in communities that bear the brunt of environmental pollution and health disparities. The nearly 110,000 hours of job training delivered by Sunrun and GRID have provided opportunities for people to acquire new skills and prepare for careers in the solar energy industry.Solar Equity InitiativeSunrun is a proud supporter of the Solar Equity Initiative, a national effort spearheaded by the NAACP to expand access to solar energy in low-income neighborhoods and communities of color. The initiative aims to provide skills training for solar jobs, strengthen policies related to solar equity, and install solar panels on houses and community centers. Sunrun committed to perform six of those installations, working with GRID, the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), United Methodist Women, Vote Solar, and other industry partners.The program kicked off in January 2018 with an installation at the Jenesse Center, a Los Angeles shelter for women and children survivors of domestic abuse. Together with representatives of Sunrun, GRID, and the NAACP, women at the shelter helped install panels while learning about the benefits of solar. The Jenesse solar array brings benefits to the surrounding community, offsetting about 90 tons of GHG emissions, which is equivalent to taking 17 cars off the road or planting 2,000 trees.9 The solar panels are also a financial boon for the center. We expect them to provide lifetime savings of more than $48,800, which will allow the center to put more of its resources toward the life-saving services it has provided for the past 35 years. |2018 IMPACT REPORT GRID AlternativesAbove: Policy Team installing solar on Oakland family home in January 2018, Below: GRID and NAACP install solar for the Love family in San Diego     In December 2018, 18 job trainees from GRID San Diego, the NAACP’s San Diego branch, and the Alliance for African Assistance received hands-on experience installing solar for Othelma and Ora Love of southeast San Diego as part of the Initiative. The Loves can expect to save $50,000 on energy over the life of their 4.3-kilowatt solar energy system—money that will do a great deal to help the family cover essential expenses. Expansion to Washington, DC. Sunrun and GRID have installed 13 systems in the Mid-Atlantic region. In 2018, Sunrun expanded its partnership 
with GRID to join GRID Alternatives Mid-Atlantic in broadening access to solar in Washington, DC. Sunrun will serve as the third-party provider of solar installations for low-income families throughout the city, through the Solar 
Works DC program administered by GRID Alternatives Mid-Atlantic. Encouraging Cleaner, Smarter EnergyExtending Energy Storage Incentives Complementing California’s mandate to achieve 100% renewable energy, Sunrun worked to extend the Self-Generation Incentive Program (SGIP) through SB 700, a bill passed in 2018 to provide an additional $800 million of rebates for customer-sited energy storage. The extension of the program supports the rapid deployment of advanced energy storage technologies, including home batteries, in California. The purpose of SGIP is to provide financial incentives for energy storage technologies that contribute to GHG emissions reductions, demand reductions, improved efficiency and reliability of the distribution and transmission system, and reduced ratepayer costs. Collectively, these technologies increase the reliability of the electric system and spur the adoption of distributed energy resources (DER) technologies. To increase access to battery storage, the SGIP program carves out 25% of funds for California’s disadvantaged and low-income communities.Mandating Solar on New HomesIn 2018, the California Energy Commission (CEC) voted to adopt a policy requiring nearly all new homes to incorporate rooftop solar—the first state-level requirement of this kind in the country. In collaboration with the SEIA and the California Solar and Storage Association (CALSSA), Sunrun engaged with policymakers to explain the benefits of the rooftop mandate, which includes home solar and battery options to give consumers more clean energy choices.Once the new policy takes effect, the number of new homes that are built each year with solar panels is expected to jump from 15,000 to around 100,000.10 The expansion of home solar and battery solutions in California can reduce homeowners’ monthly electric bills while contributing to statewide efforts to increase the reliability and efficiency 
of the electric grid.Advocating for the ConsumerHome batteries are flexible, resilient assets that can meet many of the needs of our transitioning grid. The competitive market provides unique solutions for different grid needs—but access to that value is limited. In 2018, Sunrun promoted and contributed to policies in Massachusetts, Vermont, New York, and New Hampshire that unlock the value of residential solar and batteries.Sunrun promoted “Bring Your Own Device” (BYOD) programs that allow homeowners to connect their home battery systems to the grid and thereby provide benefits to the grid. Under BYOD programs, home batteries can reduce demand on the grid during peak periods and make it easier for utilities to meet customers’ energy needs while lowering costs for all ratepayers.Promoting Solar-Friendly PoliciesAcross the country, Sunrun advocated in 2018 for consumer-friendly, pro-solar policies such as net metering, which allow consumer-owned home solar to provide more benefits to our energy system. Examples of our advocacy include the following:IN NEW HAMPSHIRE, Liberty Utility proposed a pilot program under which it would purchase, own, and deploy 1,000 Tesla Powerwalls home battery systems. Sunrun mounted an 11-month campaign that led to a settlement with Liberty to ensure that the utility does not control all behind-the-meter assets. Under the settlement, Liberty will briefly own and deploy a small number of home battery systems so that it can learn to predict peaks. The utility will then launch a statewide BYOD program, while Sunrun can act as an aggregator for up to 500 batteries. IN MASSACHUSETTS, Sunrun successfully advocated for the removal of all demand charges to solar customers, restoring stable and predictable rates.IN NEW JERSEY, Sunrun helped secure an extension of the Solar Renewable Energy Credit (SREC) Registration Program, which will ensure a strong solar market while the state legislature and regulators create a successor policy to keep clean energy growing in the state.IN SOUTH CAROLINA, Sunrun worked to eliminate the cap on net metering. The legislation fell short in the end, but a compromise was reached to extend the cap temporarily and develop a long-term solution. IN FLORIDA, Sunrun petitioned regulators at the Public Service Commission to clarify a state policy allowing third-party ownership of solar equipment. This policy ruling greatly expanded access to solar. IN WASHINGTON, DC, Sunrun successfully advocated for the rejection of utility-proposed, anti-consumer demand charges on all residential electricity consumers.Protecting Consumer RightsSunrun is committed to meeting the highest consumer protection standards. We work hard to ensure a culture of compliance at every level, and we support and engage in legislative and regulatory consumer-protection efforts across the country.In 2018, Sunrun participated in efforts to safeguard consumer rights in coordination with trade associations such as the SEIA and CALSSA. For example, through the use of disclosure forms, consumers can now better understand the fundamentals of solar and know what to expect from their solar energy system during its lifespan. Sunrun also promoted SEIA’s Residential Consumer Guide to Solar Power. Meant to give consumers the tools to use when considering solar, the guide reviews how solar works, homeowner options, questions to ask solar companies, and tips for resolving disputes. A Spanish-language version of the guide is also available for free online.Sunrun also engaged with elected officials, state consumer advocates, public utility commissions, solar companies, financial institutions, lead generators, federal agencies, and other organizations nationwide to promote consumer protection policies that benefit all solar customers.Continuing GrowthIn 2018, Sunrun expanded into new markets and introduced additional pricing and service options as part of our commitment to ensuring that more households have access to clean, affordable, and reliable home solar energy. FLORIDAWe launched solar-as-a-service and Brightbox in Florida this year, making home solar more affordable for Floridians and enabling them to keep the lights on when the grid goes down. We were restricted to selling solar energy systems, typically at high upfront prices, until the Public Service Commission (PSC) unanimously voted to allow Sunrun to offer solar-as-a-service. This decision allowed Sunrun to become the first solar company that offers Floridians widespread third-party sales, along with the opportunity to go solar with little to zero money down on a 25-year service agreement. ILLINOISIn April 2018, Sunrun expanded its home solar service to Illinois. As a result of policies such as the Future Energy Jobs Act, which demonstrates the state’s strong commitment to clean energy, Illinois residents can now more easily invest in rooftop solar. The Future Energy Jobs Act reduces financial barriers for households who want to be a part of the clean energy movement.PUERTO RICOPuerto Rico is ideally suited for solar energy. On an island, residential solar is particularly attractive because its use of existing infrastructure keeps costs low and maintenance at a minimum.In the aftermath of Hurricanes Irma and Maria in September 2017, nearly all of Puerto Rico lost power. Thousands of residents were without power, and those who did have basic electric services experienced frequent blackouts. Sunrun was one of the first national solar companies to send aid to Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria. Following the storm, Sunrun partnered with the not-for-profit organizations Empowered By Light and GivePower to equip fire stations with solar and battery systems that allowed them to provide emergency services during the longest blackout in American history.Starting in June 2018, Sunrun offered solar-as-a-service and Brightbox to households in Puerto Rico. We partner with local sales and installation teams to deliver services, which create skills and employment opportunities for the island’s residents. Sunrun remains engaged in policy discussions about aggregating the energy stored in home batteries and deploying a portion of that energy during power outages or periods of peak demand. This approach would make Puerto Rico’s energy system more resilient, while also providing households with a backup power source.California WildfiresDuring the past 40 years, California’s wildfire season grew longer, and the frequency of large fires increased fivefold. Six of the top 10 most destructive wildfires in California’s history took place between 2015 and 2018. While this may seem abnormal, it is really the new normal.Part of the problem is that our electricity system was designed for a different reality. Running high-voltage wires to communities in wildfire-prone areas is like sending a lightning bolt through dry tinder. Under certain conditions should too much electricity flow through a power line, it can increase sag, and in combination with other factors such as vegetation under or near the line, weather conditions, or proximity of other power lines, increase the risk of creating sparks that cause fires. That means the more than 642,000 miles of high-voltage transmission lines and 6.3 million miles of distribution lines in this country are potential triggers for disaster. Rooftop solar and batteries can allow utilities to safely reduce the flow of electricity through power lines, or potentially even de-energize them completely, to ensure changes made to the network in response to fire risks do not create additional hazards and without interrupting the supply of power to consumers. More local solar and batteries will reduce the overall strain on our national energy infrastructure and give grid operators and line workers enough time to make repairs and other changes that keep the lights on.Puerto RicoIn Puerto Rico Sunrun supports policymakers’ proposal to generate 100% of the island’s electricity from renewable sources by 2050. 
The Puerto Rico Energy Public Policy Act (Senate Bill 1121) would make Puerto Rico just the third U.S. jurisdiction to set such a bold clean-energy goal.BrightboxBringing Value to the GridDuring an outage, Sunrun’s Brightbox battery system can power the home, providing households with a new degree of site-level resilience. Brightbox can also optimize battery storage and solar production for some customers by allowing them to reduce their consumption of grid power when electricity rates are especially high. These customers can realize considerable energy savings on their electric bills by using the energy stored in Brightbox systems during high usage times. All customers stand to benefit from Brightbox’s ability to deliver reliable power during outages. By the third quarter of 2018, more than 25% of new California customers in Sunrun’s direct business chose to add batteries. We installed nearly 5,000 Brightbox systems by the end of 2018 and expect installations with Brightbox to grow more quickly than solar-only installations. Grid ResilienceSevere weather is the leading cause of power outages in the United States, accounting for 87% of outages and affecting 50,000 or more consumers from 2002 to 2012, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.11 Studies of such events also reveal the cost of extreme weather events. In 144 such events from 1980 to 2012, the United States suffered damages of $1 billion or more from each event.12Prolonged power outages result in still more costs. Power outages cost American households approximately $150 billion per year in expenses related to food loss, shelter, emergency supplies and equipment, and lost wages.13An estimated 70 percent of energy infrastructure in the United States is nearing the end of its useful life.14 Instead of paying some $90 billion per year to replace outdated poles and wires, we should rebuild and upgrade our grid using innovations in clean technology. Rooftop solar and home batteries offer affordable, scalable solutions that diversify our power sources, providing resilience in the face of extreme weather. |2018 IMPACT REPORT Customer
StoryPAUL McMASTERPaul and Debbie McMaster in front of their Florida home. “The power was only out for about an hour but it gave us the assurance that the Brightbox battery works just like we hoped it would.” PAUL McMASTERPaul and Debbie McMaster knew they wanted to invest in a home solar and battery system after living through four hurricanes in a single season in Clearwater, Florida. Before learning about Sunrun on the evening news, however, they thought they couldn’t afford to get solar on their home. “The leasing caught my attention because I didn’t want to have to buy panels that would take me their full lifespan to pay for,” Paul recounted. After seeing that Sunrun offers a home battery, Paul made the call. Remembering his consultation with a Sunrun representative, Paul says he told her “we were getting a battery. She didn’t even have to ask.... I wanted something to keep the power on during an outage besides noisy, smelly, dangerous generators.” Having used their Brightbox during a brief power outage, Paul and Debbie couldn’t be happier knowing the Brightbox really works. Now they have peace of mind about their ability to weather the next hurricane with backup power. Environmental
StewardshipClimate Change and EmissionsSunrun recognizes climate change as an opportunity. Climate inaction threatens global security and stability, and bringing solutions to bear on the issue has always been the driving force behind our mission to build a planet run by the sun. We are proud to be among the pioneers of the new energy economy, and we remain committed to combating climate change by reducing GHG emissions, modernizing energy infrastructure, and providing an affordable and reliable option for those seeking secure, clean energy to power their lives in an increasingly resource-constrained world.Sunrun’s Climate Change StrategyWhile our business exists to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy, we also appreciate that climate risks which could disrupt or compromise our operations exist and will persist. That is why 
we are moving to expand our capacity for assessing and responding to climate risks associated with future global-warming scenarios. Only through tireless efforts to deploy our products and services and to adhere to our evolving environmental and social policies can we insulate ourselves, our partners, and our communities from the consequences of unchecked climate change.