Societal ImpactThe WorkplaceAt Sunrun, we strive to foster a culture of inclusive, connected and innovative teams. 2020 was a challenging year on a very human level, and we recognize the responsibility placed on our employees’ shoulders. As we navigated this challenge, our core values were our guiding principles in leading the way.Our workforce consists of both corporate employees who were forced to work from home for the majority of the year and essential frontline workers who continued to show up at job sites, providing essential energy services to Americans in need. Both of these groups embodied integrity and compassion, rising to the challenge during a pivotal moment in our company and societal history. Sunrun’s executive team will be forever grateful for their work. Sunrun’s employees are our core differentiators. They embody Sunrun values and a culture of conscious leadership, coming together to do their best work everyday. We believe that human capital is one of our greatest assets, and will continue to make cultural improvements that reflect this belief.Workplace SafetyAccess to a healthy and safe workplace must be a fundamental human right, and ensuring the safety of Sunrunners, our customers, and local communities 
remains Sunrun’s top priority. In 2020, creating a culture of safety took on a different meaning. In addition to ensuring jobsite safety, we were tasked with helping a workforce of thousands navigate 
a raging pandemic. Societal ImpactCOVID-19 ResponseWhen Sunrun made the decision to close our corporate offices in March 2020, days before states enacted shelter-in-place orders, we assembled a COVID-19 Task Force to help guide us through the process. This group was composed of leaders from teams across the company, including Legal, Safety, Talent, Communications, Policy, Sales, Operations, and more. The aim of the task force was to ensure the safety and health of our employees and customers, the health of the company, and our ability to continue deploying critical solar energy to Americans at a time when more of us were at home using more power. Through weekly meetings and ongoing communications, the group helped implement and execute policies that supported the company through this unprecedented time. The work is ongoing; over time, the Task Force has been charged with establishing protocol for workers on and off job sites, outlining plans for return-to-work, communicating updates to the general workforce, and all other COVID-19 related tasks.30  |  IMPACT REPORT 2020 Societal ImpactEmployee Safety In 2020, Sunrun acquired one of the largest solar energy companies in the United States, Vivint Solar. The two companies are deeply committed to employee safety and have created industry-leading programs to help drive positive results. The combined company is in the process of combining these best practices to create a new standard for the industry going forward.Sunrun strives to be a leader for the industry in all aspects of workplace safety. Our growing safety team takes pride in training, reporting, and enforcing workplace safety for all employees. The backbone of a strong safety culture is trust; employees trusting their employer and the employer trusting their employees. We are creating an environment where employees feel empowered to help us create a safe place to work and we believe the success of these efforts will be seen in the continual improvement of our tracked safety metrics year-over-year.TABLE 82020 Occupational Health and Safety Metrics2019201420152020201620172018Total Recordable 
Injury Rate (TRIR)2.024.074.743.923.212.271.66Lost-time 
Incident Rate(LTIR)0.370.410.170.221.21.540.760001001Work-relatedFatalities (WRF)0000000Days Away, 
Restricted, or 
Transferred Rate (DART)1.872.412.963.943.131.31.3Near Miss 
Frequency Rate (NMFR)0.860.851.542.862.783.342.39Societal ImpactComprehensive safety training and certification programs also play a vital role in promoting safety across our organization. Sunrun provides safety training programs for all OSHA-required safety topics and additional topics specific to Sunrun for new hires, which continues as employees mature in their roles. Two full days of training are provided to new solar installers, electricians, and site assessors before they can participate in an installation, with installers receiving an average of 40 hours of documented training by the end of their first year of employment.Once again, compared to similar industries, like roofing, electrical and construction, Sunrun’s incident rates continue to be lower than all averages.Our internal training programs are further strengthened by external certification and licensing agencies including journeyman and master electrician license holders, Certified Safety Professionals (CSP) through the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP), PV installation certifications from the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioner (NABCEP) and OSHA 30 cardholders. All construction supervisors and foremen maintain CPR certification.In 2020, Sunrun also added the use of drones to do site inspections and audits, which has reduced the need for employees to climb on ladders and scale roofs to take necessary planning measurements. TABLE 9Recordable Incident RatesRecordable Incident Rates are annual statistics based on the number of injuries expected per every 100 full-time employeesCompared to similar industries, like roofing, electrical and construction, Sunrun’s incident rates are currently lower than all averages and dropping annually. Our minor injuries have dropped year over year while support for injured workers increased and repeat incidents have reduced.Sunrun added the use of drones to do site inspections and audits, which has reduced the need for employees to climb on ladders and scale roofs to take necessary planning measurements.Societal ImpactVerification and Compliance Compliance with safety policies are achieved through vehicle monitoring, inspections, and auditing of quality-assurance (QA) photographs. The telematics devices in each of our fleet vehicles constantly transmit data on speed, driving behavior, and location, allowing for targeted training on vehicle safety to employees. 100% of installs are audited for safety through photo documentation, ensuring our work is performed to Sunrun’s safety and quality standards. Additionally, random jobsite and facility audits are performed to verify compliance and comprehension of training.Product SafetySunrun’s Safety and Logistics departments collaborate on the selection of all new products. When a new chemical is considered for use in field, office, or warehouse environments, Sunrun first evaluates the health and environmental hazards documented on the safety data sheet published by the chemical’s manufacturer. Only products that can be safely handled with basic personal protective equipment are accepted for use by Sunrun employees. Vendor Health and SafetyOur commitment to ensuring safe and injury-free workplaces extends to our vendors. Sunrun’s Vendor Code of Conduct requires that all vendors provide workers with a safe and healthy work environment. We require vendors to comply with all applicable health and safety laws, regulations, and practices, including those relating to occupational safety, emergency preparedness, occupational injury and illness, industrial hygiene, physically demanding work, machine safeguarding, sanitation, food, and housing. We also require vendors to ensure that all required permits, licenses, and registrations are obtained, maintained, and kept up-to date and that all workers are qualified and equipped to perform activities safely and responsibly.To ensure that vendors abide by Sunrun’s Vendor Code of Conduct and applicable laws and regulations, we may conduct periodic vendor audits. When an audit uncovers a violation, Sunrun reserves the right to terminate its relationship with the vendor and impose restrictions on future business unless the violation is promptly corrected. Sunrun aims to survey vendors that comprise at least 80% of total value transacted with Sunrun, along with new vendors, seeking affirmations that each vendor is aware of and compliant with the Vendor Code of Conduct. Only products that can be safely handled with basic personal protective equipment are accepted for use by Sunrun employees. Societal ImpactThe foundation of all 
our talent programs 
and initiatives is to foster a culture of inclusive, connected, and 
innovative teams.People and 
CommunitiesAt Sunrun, the core of our talent programs and initiatives is to foster a culture of inclusive, connected, and innovative teams. In 2020, we focused on building a shared identity and strengthening our Sunrun culture of belonging, particularly as we managed the integration of Vivint Solar and our community navigated the challenges of COVID-19. We ended 2020 
with approximately 8,500 employeesSocietal ImpactThe integration of Sunrun and Vivint Solar created an opportunity to design a more efficient, best in class company that has the decision-making agility and nimbleness to ensure excellent customer service, care and efficiency.Our Workforce We ended 2020 with approximately 8,500 employees as a combined entity between Sunrun and Vivint Solar. At the company level, 86% of our employees are in frontline functions engaging with our customers. Our frontline consists of 49% of employees involved in installations, 37% in sales. Management and corporate functions comprise 14% of our total employee population.Talent Integration The integration of Sunrun and Vivint Solar created an opportunity to design a more efficient, best in class company that has the decision-making agility and nimbleness to ensure excellent customer service, care and efficiency. At Sunrun, our goal is to listen to our employee feedback regularly and to that effect, besides off-cycle pulse, we run company wide engagement surveys. During this year, with the coming together of two companies, we ran a ‘one-time’ specific Culture survey (Organisational Health Index) to drive the integration of Sunrun-Vivint Solar.  Integration survey in partnership with McKinsey. The objective was to identify our shared strengths, similar practices and areas of opportunity. We had participation from more than 60% of our employee base. As a combined organization, we were in the top quartile relative to the global dataset. The two organizations were found to share leaders who set high expectations, high levels of motivation, and an open and trusting work environment. We identified coordination and control and external orientation as our priority areas. Action planning from the survey has been initiated with cadence on progress tracking.Societal ImpactDiversity, Inclusion and Belonging We believe that having a diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace better positions us to respond to our diverse customers. Diversity of thought and experience is critical to the innovation and development of new ideas. In 2020, Sunrun reinforced our efforts by hiring a new Head of Diversity, a new Head of Talent Management, and introducing a series of employee and manager programming to support the belief that everyone has a responsibility to make Sunrun and our communities more inclusive. Employee ProgrammingNew employee programming in 2020 included a monthly “Candid Conversation” series, podcasts, and wellness events including mental health, fitness challenges, self care and financial education events.  CANDID CONVERSATIONS are a monthly livestream for all employees to encourage and guide discussions about difficult topics in a psychologically safe environment. Some of the topics in 2020 included ‘Microaggressions;’ ‘Being Black in Corporate America;’ ‘Environmental Justice;’ and ‘Disability at Work.’PODCASTS were started to help bring content to our frontline employees in a format that is easier for them to engage. Some of the topics in 2020 included ‘Pronouns, Gender Identity & Gender Expression’ and ‘Code Switching.’ In addition, all of the monthly livestream Candid Conversations are converted to podcast format for employees who couldn’t attend.MONTHLY MENTAL HEALTH REMINDERS AND WELLNESS EVENTS are shared with employees to reiterate the importance of leaders to check 
in with their teams and ensure self care for all of our Sunrun employees.Candid Conversations are a monthly livestream for all employees to encourage and guide discussions about difficult topics in a psychologically safe environment.Societal ImpactSunrun formed six 
Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs) that have grown to a 
membership of approximately 
850 employees.Employee 
Resource GroupsThis year Sunrun formed six Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) that have grown to a membership of approximately 850 employees as of December 31, 2020. The groups include Sunrun’s Asian+, Black+, Latinx+, Pride, Veterans and Women’s ERGs. These ERGs promote connection among our employees and assist in the development and facilitation of programming that supports personal and professional development while also supporting the company’s objectives. Some examples  included an internal career showcase to encourage career growth, organizing Candid Conversations, and supporting religious and cultural holidays.Sunrun  also formed a Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging (DI&B) Senior Leadership Council to enhance our efforts toward creating a space that nurtures and develops people from all backgrounds. The Council consists of Directors, Senior Directors and Vice Presidents from across various business unit functions who meet monthly, who advise the ERG leadership teams and act 
as a steering committee for our company DI&B initiatives.Societal ImpactTalent Acquisition and Talent ManagementWe are proud to be an equal opportunity employer and a welcoming place for everyone without consideration of race, color, religion, ethnicity, citizenship, political activity or affiliation, marital status, age, national origin, ancestry, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, sex or gender, or any other basis protected by law.We leverage tools that improve the inclusivity of our job postings, and in 2020, we formed a Talent Communities team to increase our efforts to identify a more diverse pool of candidates. We have also committed to ensure all slates of diverse candidates for all Director and above open roles. We believe that investing in the career growth of our employees is paramount to developing and maintaining our competitive advantage. Another example of this is in 2020, we identified multiple opportunities to support that objective including sponsoring ten employees who identify as Black+ to attend the Executives Leadership Councils Mid-Level Managers Symposium and sponsored six employees who identify as LGBTQ+ to attend the Out & Equal Workplace Summit.Sunrun believes in respecting and appreciating the unique cultures and celebrations of our employees. In 2020, we added seven culturally significant 
and religious observance holidays to our flexible holiday options including 
Juneteenth, Lunar New Year, Diwali, Eid al-Fitr, Indigenous People’s Day, 
Yom Kippur and Hanukkah.We believe that investing in the career growth of our employees is paramount to developing and maintaining our competitive advantage.Societal ImpactEthnic DiversityGender DiversityDemographicsAchieving a more diverse workplace begins with understanding our current demographics. In the fourth quarter of 2020, Sunrun launched a Personal Information Self-ID campaign to encourage employees to voluntarily share their unique identities by updating their gender and race/ethnicity. We also added new fields for gender identity, sexual orientation and pronouns. This effort helped us better understand our employee population. As of December 31, 2020, women comprised 44% of Sunrun’s Board of Directors and 50% of our executive management team. Our organizational leadership included approximately 21% women, and approximately 23% of all Sunrun employees are women. In 2020, women made up 44% of our Board of Directors, and 50% of our senior executives. Age DiversitySocietal ImpactConscious Leadership and Talent 
DevelopmentWe believe that people do their best work when they are supported by human-centered, engaged leadership. In 2020, Sunrun launched a “Conscious Leadership” program and plans to cover all of the first four management layers through an intensive leadership development program. Our multi-pronged approach includes training, one-on-one coaching, embedding Conscious Leadership principles in our talent programs and supporting these efforts through robust communication. Led directly by Sunrun CEO Lynn Jurich, the Conscious Leadership initiative drives how we operate and engage as a leadership team and contribute to Sunrun culture and leadership. In 2020, we also developed and rolled out a succession of management strategies, which covered all of our executives roles and critical Vice President / Senior Vice President roles. We have a strong bench of successors in all the key company roles, with more than 80% supported by a succession-ready candidate in one to three years. Not only is the succession bench strong, but because we integrate our diversity principles directly into our succession management strategy, the diversity of candidates is also strong. Our next step is to develop and execute a developmental strategy for successor readiness and offer our leaders growth opportunities across the company.To support holistic career development, we have a “check-ins” system for all employees. This is an ongoing process with three formalized touch points during the year. This approach helps managers and employees align on expectations, discuss progress, provide feedback, and engage in an ongoing dialogue about career aspirations. We will continue to build the connection between company goals and check-in conversations to manage outcomes and make work meaningful for employees. Because we integrate our diversity principles directly into our succession management strategy, the diversity of candidates is strong.Societal ImpactTalent and 
Pipeline Development Despite the pandemic-related barriers, Sunrun added approximately 6,200 new hires to its workforce in 2020. The majority of these roles (93% of all of hires) joined our frontline sales and operations team. To accelerate hiring for our critical sales and electrician roles, we are taking multi-pronged approach to ramp up the talent pool through the following efforts: •	Building partnerships with community colleges, workforce development programs, and organizations that specialize in sales and electrical skill sets. •	Hire talent from diverse backgrounds by building talent communities through our ERGs and focusing on veteran hiring. We made progress in 2020 by increasing ethnic diversity of the workforce by 3%.  In 2020, Sunrun created internal opportunities for 13% of our employees into new roles across the organization. The pace of our growth requires a deep focus on developing and retaining  talent. Sunrun launched multiple talent development initiatives to support these efforts, including:•	The Talent team programmed internal mobility across key sales roles.•	Developed learning pathways and career progression models for talent to get certified in the electrician skill set. Sunrun was honored with four awards from Comparably in 2020 for having a top performing company culture based on feedback from our employees.Societal ImpactCompensation, 
Wellness and Benefits Sunrun is committed to providing a living wage of at least $15 per hour to all employees. We are working to revise wages and salaries of employees in order to address this commitment.Sunrun is actively working to differentiate ourselves in terms of total rewards and benefits to help us to attract and retain our talent. 2020 Highlights We developed a robust COVID-19 leave policy to support employees:We implemented a remote worker policy for 
non-field employees.  For field employees, the COVID-19 Safety Taskforce has continued to establish protocols in accordance with the 
latest guidance from government agencies to keep our employees safe. We conducted approximately 15 sessions across wide ranging topics to support mental health, financial literacy and well being, with participation from about 75 employees per session. We are committed to enabling a work-life balance and improving the personal lives of our employees. Societal ImpactPaid Time Off•	We believe it is important for our employees to spend time with their families 
and focus on personal well being. We offer 11 paid holidays and paid time off for 
non-exempt employees, and freedom time off for all exempt employees. •	Additionally, Sunrun offers two paid volunteer days per year to allow our employees to help build stronger communities, one annual flexible holiday, 
and 10 days of paid leave for active military service. •	Sunrun also provides ten weeks of paid parental leave for all employees who 
have been at the company for more than a year.Pay Parity at SunrunSunrun also continues our commitment to the following pay parity pledges: •	White House Equal Pay Pledge of 2016 under the Obama Administration•	The California Equal Pay Pledge developed as part of the partnership between the California Commission on the Status of Women and Girls and the Office of California First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom (April 01, 2019) Employee stock-purchase plan (ESPP) 
and a 401(k) retirement plan.A company match feature to the 401(k) plan, under which Sunrun matches each employee’s contributions up to a specific percentage. Part time employees are also eligible for ESPP and 401(k) Maven maternity and paternity program for 
new parents with 24/7 concierge services, 
on-demand digital clinics, and online 
community forums Tobacco Cessation ProgramsWeight Watchers membershipsStress relief servicesTelemedicine services for fast assistance with general health and behavioral health needs An employee discount program, which includes fitness center discountsEmployee assistance programTuition reimbursementList of 
Benefits Full-time employees are eligible for 
the Sunrun benefits package, which includes medical, dental, vision, life, 
and disability insurance. Employee benefits also include:Societal ImpactWorkforce 
Development Product training and the customer journey are essential focuses at Sunrun. 
We offer learning resources to help our employees provide positive experiences to our customers, in addition to development training for all employees and leadership training for managers. In 2020, we built the new hire orientation program to support remote onboarding and launched programs on code of conduct for sales to strengthen our governance practices. We required training to prevent harassment and discrimination and to reinforce Sunrun’s commitment to an inclusive workplace. We have a robust library of online materials including electronic learning modules from third parties, as well as over 380 custom, in-house-developed online modules. The modules range from two-minute “how to” videos to complex, multi-hour training programs. Employees spent over 40,000 hours completing online learning in 2020. Our skill-based employees take advantage of classroom training, hands-on training, and distance learning in the form of webinars. We delivered 272 days of instructor-led training in 2020. Online Resources LinkedIn Learning is an on-demand learning solution designed to provide our employees with the tools to take charge of their development, gain new skills and advance their current role and overall careers. In 2020 Sunrun had 969 active users on LinkedIn Learning who have logged more than 1,746 total hours developing their skills. The portal averaged 1 hours and 20 minutes per viewer.We offer learning resources to help our employees provide positive experiences 
to our customers.Societal ImpactMeeting Global 
Challenges With 
Local SolutionsEnergy is responsible for 80% of carbon emissions. The extreme weather events and the pandemic in2020 showed us our system has to change now. The energy sector drives the global economy, changes lives, and impacts our planet. These points were driven home in 2020 as customers were forced to shelter-in-place not only during a global pandemic, but through unprecedented wildfires and electricity shutoffs, increased extreme weather, and political upheaval. Now, more than ever, people strongly desire to control their own energy in a clean, reliable and resilient way. This will be even more important as consumers shift toward electrifying their homes and vehicles, increasing the value proposition for homegrown solar energy paired with battery storage. In 2020, Sunrun swiftly responded to this seismic shift in customer need by changing the way we sell and deliver our products to customers. We developed tools and strategies to make the process of going solar more digital and contact-free. Despite the pandemic’s economic fallout, we still saw record-breaking sales figures at certain moments and a general increase in interest from around the country. As we scale, we are continuing to embrace the innovative spirit that brought us to this point. Throughout 2020, we focused on networking our customer homes into what’s known as “virtual power plants,” emerging stronger as a business when faced with barriers, expanding access to solar and batteries for all Americans, and advancing policy that supports clean energy.As we scale, we are continuing to embrace the innovative spirit that brought us to this point.Societal ImpactValuing Home Batteries Through Energy ServicesBackup power is a primary driver for most customers who choose to add a Brightbox battery to their home solar energy system. When not providing backup power, home batteries can also unlock additional value streams for our customers and completely transform our energy system into a more efficient, sustainable and affordable model.Networking home solar and batteries together into a virtual power plant will play a critical role in creating a 100% clean energy future. They maximize the value of individual batteries without sacrificing benefit to the customer, while also creating a more efficient, resilient, and affordable grid for all energy consumers.That’s why Sunrun is committed to building out distributed energy systems across the country. We currently have 12 virtual power plants in contract across the country, requiring thousands of solar and battery-powered homes to participate. These virtual power plants will help us shutdown polluting, expensive fossil 
fuel plants.  Sunrun currently has 
12 virtual power plants 
across the country. These will help us shutdown polluting, expensive fossil fuel plants.Societal ImpactPartnering with Community Choice Aggregators (CCA)Providing Capacity at 
Times of High DemandBring-Your-Own-DeviceIn 2020, Sunrun won a contract with East Bay Community Energy (EBCE) CCA to help replace a retiring jet-fuel power plant in one of the most polluted communities in the Bay Area with home solar and battery systems. These batteries are being installed on low income housing in Oakland and Alameda, CA, providing a strong example for how Americans of all income levels can benefit from and engage in our energy future. Through this project, Sunrun will bundle solar energy stored in home battery systems and send it back to the electricity grid as a virtual power plant, helping to provide power to the whole community.In addition, Sunrun signed an agreement to install up to 20 megawatts of solar-battery systems for about 6,000 homes served by CCAs East Bay Community Energy, Peninsula Clean Energy and Silicon Valley Clean Energy. The systems will provide backup electricity in case of a power shutoff at each home and can be networked together to build virtual power plants. These networked systems can help reduce peak power demand and use local resources to stabilize the operation of California’s electrical grid in real-time.In 2020, Sunrun contracted with Southern California Edison (SCE) - one of the largest utilities in the United States - to increase grid resilience and lower power costs for all energy consumers. SCE will send signals to Sunrun during high-demand events such as extreme heat waves when the energy grid is strained. In response, Sunrun will dispatch energy from thousands of its Brightbox batteries installed in the SCE territory, providing five megawatts of energy capacity to help support the overall energy system. The systems will be part of the California Independent System Operator’s Resource Adequacy program, setting the stage for distributed assets to compete with other demand response solutions that are more expensive, polluting, and inefficient. By bundling the power from these batteries together to create a virtual power plant, Sunrun will release stored solar energy to the grid when it’s needed most, lowering the overall cost of power and reducing critical strain on the energy system. At least 10% of the capacity will be provided from Brightbox systems installed on low-to-moderate income households. Sunrun continued its co-development and participation in bring-your-own-device (BYOD) programs in 2020, signing a deal to bundle more than 300 Brightbox battery systems and deliver clean solar power to the electricity grid when called upon by New York state-based utility Orange & Rockland (O&R). Customers can enroll in the O&R-sponsored program using their Sunrun Brightbox rechargeable battery system. Sunrun helps bundle and coordinate the energy stored in the systems, forming a virtual power plant to partially offset demand on O&R’s electricity grid in key areas, while providing clean, reliable, locally-generated solar power to residents in Orange and Rockland service territory.The program is a win across the board. Sunrun earns compensation from O&R for managing and dispatching the networked home solar and battery-stored energy. O&R will in turn benefit by leveraging these local resources to reduce electricity load on O&R’s heavily used distribution system in these areas. By participating in this program, O&R customers will gain access to clean, reliable energy provided by Sunrun’s home rooftop solar and Brightbox battery storage systems at a discounted rate.Societal ImpactMarket ExpansionRecord storms, heat waves, and wildfires in 2020 once again exposed vulnerabilities within the electric grid’s aging infrastructure, leaving millions of people without power. These outages came as millions of Americans worked and schooled from home due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sunrun’s Brightbox provides households the ability to power through such power outages with clean, reliable and immediate home energy.Sunrun announced in November 2020 that it would bring its rechargeable solar battery system, Brightbox, to all of the company’s active markets to help address this growing need. With this announcement - along with our expansion into Florida Power and Light territory - Sunrun expanded access to millions of new potential customers. We currently have 16,000 Brightbox customers across the country. Emerging 
StrongerVivint Solar AcquisitionDespite the global challenges of 2020, Sunrun embraced opportunities to emerge stronger. Sunrun accelerated scale with the acquisition of Vivint Solar, ending the year with 550,000 customers and solidifying our position as a top owner of solar assets globally with nearly four gigawatts of Networked Solar Energy Capacity. Together, with a shared vision to create a planet run by the sun, Sunrun and Vivint Solar empowered more families to take control of their energy future by increasing customer choice in how they create and consume power. Sunrun’s rechargeable solar battery system, Brightbox, is now available in all our 
active markets. Societal ImpactNew TechnologyWhen the world was in lock-down, Sunrun quickly pivoted to a more virtual sales process as it continued to operate as an essential service. We launched drone-based site-inspections at 80% of branches, allowing Sunrun to better serve customers through digital technology. The shift to a more digital process overall enabled us to keep our customers and employees safe, while continuing to deliver this critical technology.Reducing Soft Costs In October, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) launched a no-cost, no-touch software system to streamline rooftop solar permits called Solar Automated Permit Processing (SolarAPP). This free, online permitting platform will enable automated compliance reviews and instant permit approval. Faster permits lead to faster installs and improves overall customer experience. As society races the clock against the climate crisis, accelerated and safe installations of solar and storage allow homeowners to take action, while also helping cities and counties hit environmental goals on time. Additionally, clustered deployment of solar and storage within a city or county border creates a more resilient constituency. Concentrated growth sets the stage for micro-grids and virtual power plants, which can keep the lights on when wildfires and other disasters increase the likelihood of power outages. Since installers pay a fee for every system they install within a city or county, local governments also benefit from the increased revenues and economic development SolarAPP supports in their territory. On the industry side, SolarAPP eliminates a resource-intensive and time-consuming review process by instantly calculating whether a proposed residential solar system is compliant with safety and code standards. Since external softs costs and delays can result in an additional $7,000 per project for customers, employing SolarAPP shows great promise and is steadily gaining traction. Sunrun plans to support the growth of SolarAPP in order to reach many local building and permitting authorities in the coming year. Additionally, $35 million passed by Congress in December 2020 to reduce solar soft costs is expected to accelerate SolarAPP adoption among local governments.We launched 
drone-based 
site-inspections at 80% of branches, allowing Sunrun to better serve customers through digital technology. Societal ImpactBLACKS IN GREEN, CHICAGOIn 2020, Sunrun continued its partnership with Blacks in Green (BIG), an environmental economic development organization designed to tackle pollution and poverty in Chicago’s underserved communities. The goals of the partnership are to increase opportunities for South Side Chicago homeowners to access clean, affordable home solar energy, as well as increase clean energy career opportunities for residents in traditionally underserved and underrepresented communities. Sunrun and BIG work together to expand access to no-cost solar programs for income-eligible families through the Illinois Solar for All Program.GRID ALTERNATIVES  For nearly a decade, Sunrun has partnered with GRID Alternatives, a national non-profit leader in making renewable energy technology and job training accessible to underserved communities. In 2020, Sunrun and GRID teamed up to offer 100% free battery systems to low-income customers in wildfire-prone regions of California to provide much-needed backup power when the grid is down. The batteries are funded through California’s Self-Generation Incentive Program (SGIP) Equity Resiliency Budget.RISING SUN CENTER FOR OPPORTUNITY Sunrun partnered with the Rising Sun Center for Opportunity, an Oakland-based non-profit building career pathways for economic equity and climate resilience. From Oakland to Stockton and the Central Valley, the organization serves as a green training, employment, and residential energy efficiency organization grounded in equity. Sunrun is also exploring opportunities to hire from Rising Sun’s Opportunity Build program, which provides free construction job training and placement to adults facing barriers to employment. WE ACT  Sunrun launched a partnership with WE ACT for Environmental Justice, a nationally-recognized, New York based organization that advocates for fair environmental health policies for people of color and low-income families. The purpose of the partnership is to advocate for state, local, and federal policies that expand access to solar, grid resiliency, and economic empowerment for people of color and low-income families. Expanding Access to Solar Energy In 2020, the world reckoned with deeply entrenched injustices embedded throughout the economy and society. While Sunrun has always partnered with key allies to help expand solar energy in underrepresented communities across the country, we took stock of our impact on the energy industry and how we could best mitigate disadvantages for our most vulnerable populations. Everyone has a right to clean energy, regardless of race, background, or ethnicity. Sunrun is committed to enabling more access to clean energy like solar and batteries in the communities that need it the most and ensuring a diverse, welcoming workforce.Societal ImpactHONNOLD FOUNDATIONSunrun joined forces with the Honnold Foundation, a nonprofit founded in 2012 by prominent rock climber, Alex Honnold, to launch a new grant fund in 2020. The fund, called the Community Fund, will offer non-restricted grants to community-based nonprofits led by Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) in the most polluted places in America to install solar. Sunrun donated solar equipment and a monetary contribution for use in Community Fund solar power installations. In addition to the Community Fund, Sunrun will be partnering with the Honnold Foundation on solar panel donations to the Solar Holler project in West Virginia. Together with Solar Holler, the groups will be funding a 122.2kW solar system for Coalfield Development’s West Edge community facility and supporting a comprehensive solar job training program for former coal miners.CHANELEnvironmental advocacy has expanded beyond the energy world into industries like fashion. The international fashion brand Chanel committed $35 million toward a partnership with Sunrun to build solar energy projects for low-income multifamily households. This is expected to provide clean solar power to nearly 30,000 low-income residents across California, offering families on average up to $40 to $50 a month in energy cost savings. The investment also supports more than 20,000 hours of job training in the first year, offering valuable vocational skills and certifications to hundreds of people in disadvantaged communities. Approximately 30 megawatts of solar energy systems on affordable multifamily properties throughout California are expected to be financed through this partnership.The Chanel/Sunrun partnership sets a bold example and model of leadership for other businesses. With Chanel’s investment, more people gain access to clean, reliable solar energy. This innovative approach to corporate social responsibility can become a blueprint for companies across the globe looking to invest in our planet’s future.Expanding Access to Solar Energy Societal ImpactAdvancements 
in Policy In 2020, Sunrun worked with clean energy advocacy groups, policymakers, and individual advocates to create and protect policies that expand access to clean energy technology like home solar and batteries. Policymakers from both sides of the aisle offered a clear message to the American people that we need to reimagine our energy system and deliver more local, reliable, and clean energy for all. In an October 2020 debate, President Biden spoke about advancements in solar-powered home battery technology and committed to installing millions of panels over the next several years. In December, Republican former President Trump signed legislation passed by a Republican-controlled Congress that extended solar tax credits at the current rates. Sunrun also achieved groundbreaking state and local energy policy progress. All of these decisions are critical to laying the foundation for a better future energy system and putting people at the center of the solution. We have the technology today to fight climate change and put people back to work. Our teams are working tirelessly to pursue an aggressive electrification agenda and help more people gain access to rooftop solar and batteries.President Biden spoke about advancements 
in solar-powered home battery technology and committed to installing millions of panels over the next several years.Societal ImpactSignificant investments in local solar and batteries could create more than two million jobs to build one of the cleanest, lowest-cost energy grids imaginable. Valuing Distributed EnergySunrun worked with a group of solar companies, advocacy groups, and energy experts to create the “Local Solar for All” coalition, which aims to highlight the untapped value of local clean energy assets. The group released a 2020 report finding that significant investments in local solar and batteries could create nearly $500 billion in savings for all energy consumers compared to sinking investment into the same outdated energy system. This future would create more than two million jobs to build one of the cleanest, lowest-cost energy grids imaginable. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) reinforced the value of local solar and batteries through Order Number 2222, which announced that distributed energy assets can participate in the bulk wholesale markets where traditionally only centralized power plants operated, with few notable exceptions such as Sunrun’s 2018 capacity contract in ISO-NE. In developing 2222, Sunrun worked with other key industry stakeholders to file comments and participate in key technical conferences in support of the order. We are now working with stakeholders nationwide to ensure the markets comply with the order. A positive outcome will eliminate barriers for distributed energy resources like home solar and batteries to participate in wholesale energy markets, paving the way to unlock the maximum value of this technology. “Order 2222 is a landmark, foundational rule that paves the way for the 
grid of tomorrow.”NEIL CHATTERJEEE 
Republican FERC Chairman Securing the Future The future for solar energy is very bright as technology and installation costs continue to decline. In 2020, to support the industry’s continued growth and solar deployment, Congress passed bipartisan legislation to extend the solar investment tax credit (ITC) at 26% for two more years. The legislation delayed the scheduled ITC step-down to 22% until 2023. Additionally, in 2020 the U.S. House of Representatives passed a five-year ITC extension at 30% as part of the GREEN Act. Sunrun and the broader industry are working with a variety of stakeholders to advance that legislation in the new Congress and White House, making solar and batteries even more accessible to Americans at a time when they are needed most.Local Solutions Energy policy is still largely decided at the state and local level. Many local, state, and regional governments have different needs and create solutions specific for their communities. Sunrun successfully advocated for and defended critical solar and battery policy with dozens of state utility commissions and legislatures throughout 2020. The company worked with key local and national stakeholders to ensure fair compensation for home solar and batteries, cut red tape to increase access to this critical technology, expand regional utility partnerships, and generally improve customer satisfaction.  Societal ImpactSolar on Multifamily Affordable HousingSunrun collaborated with the Solar on Multifamily Affordable Housing 
(SOMAH) program administrators, nonprofit affordable housing developers, and workforce development groups to enable faster deployment of rooftop solar projects for low-income renters in California. This successful group effort created an alternative two-payment structure, called the Progress Payment Pathway, to speed payments to eligible projects while safeguarding public funds. The pathway pays 60% of the total.approved state-funded SOMAH.incentive upon proof that the solar installation is complete, and holds the remaining payment until the applicant has received sign-off from local building officials and full permission to operate from the utility. By smoothing cash flow and significantly lowering the total working capital required for each solar project, the Progress Payment Pathway will reduce barriers to participation, particularly for smaller solar contractors and host customers with limited capital, and ultimately increase the number of low-income families in California who benefit from solar savings and cleaner air. Societal ImpactOutages From Coast to Coast During the summer of 2020, widespread outages swept across the United States. On the West Coast, California’s worst-ever fire season burned more than four million acres, killed dozens, and left millions more without power. This was all after a massive heat wave forced rolling blackouts for the first time in 20 years. On the East Coast, Hurricane Isaias caused 1.4 million people in New Jersey to lose power, similar to the much more powerful Hurricane Sandy nearly a decade earlier. Extreme weather is not abating, and our current electric grid is not meeting our needs. However, we now have the ability to respond to and prevent these tragedies while fighting against climate change. In California, a few thousand forward-thinking residents with solar-powered rechargeable batteries provided critical support by feeding power into the grid when it was most strained, helping reduce the magnitude of the blackouts. These homeowners were also able to power through the outages with the remaining electricity stored in their batteries. By advancing local clean energy technology, people can keep their lights on and reduce the demand for electricity on our overall grid when it is most fragile.Today, there are more than one million solar roofs in California and more than 120,000 in New Jersey. A growing subset of these also have batteries, which keep the lights on during grid failures, something that decades of utility spending billions of dollars can’t seem to fix.At this pivotal moment in our nation’s energy transition, we can turn this crisis into an opportunity to build a stronger, cleaner and more resilient energy system. Generating and storing clean power lowers electricity costs and emissions, offers individual backup power during outages, and reduces the frequency of blackouts for the greater community.