Environmental ImpactSunrun recognizes that inaction on climate change threatens global security and stability, and responding with solutions has always been the driving force behind our mission to build a planet run by the sun. Building a more local, community-based energy system through home solar and batteries is the foundation of our work. However, Sunrun is also committed to comprehensive environmental stewardship as demonstrated through the following avenues:Supplier ResponsibilitySunrun vendors are subject to screening and audit based on environmental and social criteria. Please refer to our Vendor Code of Conduct for more information on the policy and our “Vendor Sustainability” section below for 2020 updates.Resource Efficiency and Pollution PreventionSunrun has made efforts to reduce or eliminate waste generation, hazardous waste release, greenhouse gas emissions, and to engage in product end-of-life stewardship.Performance Evaluation and ReportingWe monitor performance and report in accordance with prevailing sustainability reporting frameworks, with special focus on the Task Force on Climate Related Disclosures (TCFD). Our annual reporting informs interested stakeholders on environmental performance, and helps us identify priority areas for focus and improvement.Employee AwarenessEmployees are provided with opportunities to develop environmental knowledge and skills, empowering them to lessen personal adverse environmental impacts.Sunrun vendors are subject to screening and audit based on environmental and social criteria. Environmental ImpactSunrun is developing strategies for assessing and responding to current and future climate risks.Sunrun’s 
Climate Change StrategyIn 2020 Sunrun solidified its position as a global leader in solar deployment and environmental stewardship after successfully acquiring our nearest competitor, Vivint Solar. This transaction enables us to support an accelerated shift to a more low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. However, persistent climate risks and industry inertia could disrupt or compromise operations like they did during the recent fires in California, East Coast hurricanes, and snow storm-caused blackouts in Texas. We continue to develop strategies for assessing and responding to current and future climate risks. Only through our continued efforts to deploy our products and services to our growing customer base and to adhere to our evolving environmental and social policies can we better insulate ourselves, our partners, and our communities from the consequences of unchecked climate change.Environmental ImpactSunrun has offset nearly 8.1 million metric tons of carbon by deploying 3,885 megawatts of solar power. The Customer CommunitySince 2007, Sunrun has offset nearly 8.1 million metric tons of carbon by deploying 3,885 megawatts of solar power. With more than 550,000 customers, we see a new system installed every one-and-a-half minutes on average per work week. This has created nearly $600 million in savings for our customers, who see an average bill savings of 5-45% over the lifetime of their system. But our business has evolved beyond rooftop solar. We are now a full-service home solar and battery company, with our rechargeable solar-powered battery solution, Brightbox, now available in all Sunrun markets. The devastating wildfires and days-long power outages of 2020 underscored the need for a cleaner, more reliable and more resilient energy system. That’s why we have seen a steady growth in the percentage of all Sunrun customers who opt to include a rechargeable Brightbox battery as part of their energy system. The resiliency and protection during outages, coupled with a way for households to better manage their energy bills, are clear values to customers across the country. Environmental ImpactSunrun negates 
more emissions than we produce. Reducing 
GHG EmissionsSunrun’s systems continuously offset GHG emissions as they deliver clean energy to customers. During 2020, we deployed 603.4 megawatts of solar to 84,559 customers. These systems could generate over 20 billion kilowatt-hours of clean energy during the next 30 years, enough to prevent the emission of over 14 million metric tons of CO2e. This quantity is more than 30 times greater than the quantity of CO2e emitted to deploy these systems, which means that Sunrun negates significantly more emissions than we produce. Sunrun’s GHG emissions estimates draw on the guidance provided in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.2 Our emissions inventory includes direct (scope 1), indirect (scope 2), and other indirect (scope 3) emissions, covering emissions attributable to Sunrun’s company-owned and -operated vehicle fleet, occupied offices and warehouse space, and equipment-lifecycle considerations and the supporting activities of our partners. We prepared our first emissions inventory in 2017 and have applied the same methodology in subsequent years so results can be compared readily. Please refer to the Appendix for more details on our calculations and the assumptions behind them.TABLE 3Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Carbon IntensityType of Emissions(Thousand MT CO2e) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Direct Emissions + Electricity Indirect Emissions 
(Scope 1 + Scope 2)  37 57 35 39 52 Other Indirect 
Emissions 
(Scope 3) 198 227 257 290 423 Total Emissions 
from Operations  235 284 291 329 475 Emissions Intensity(Thousand MT CO2e 
per MW deployed) 0.83 0.88 0.78 0.80 0.79 Emissions Intensity(Thousand MT CO2e 
per $M revenue) 0.51 0.54 0.38 0.38 0.35 Emission TypesScope 1:Vehicle fleet and on-site natural gas consumption 
for Sunrun and our partnersScope 2:Leased offices and warehouses of Sunrun and our partnersModule manufacturing, balance-of-system (BOS) components, and material transportationScope 3:*Emission intensity for revenue uses GAAP reported revenue for FY2020 which excludes revenues from Vivint Solar prior to the acquisition closing on 10/8/2020Environmental ImpactTABLE 4Emissions IntensitySunrun’s systems are expected to produce clean energy for 30 years or longer. Our systems prevent the release of harmful GHGs for 97% of their lifetime.TABLE 5Energy Intensity* (kWh/$M Revenue)*For Sunrun operated facilitiesEnvironmental ImpactSunrun’s cumulative deployed systems of 3,885 megawatts are estimated to offset more than 92 million metric tons of CO2e emissions over 30 years.Positive Carbon ReturnsOnce Sunrun’s solar energy systems begin operating, positive carbon returns accrue rapidly. Our deployed solar energy systems prevent more GHG emissions than they emit over their product life cycle, resulting in a net-positive carbon balance. After operating for just 11 months, a Sunrun solar energy system will prevent the emission of as much GHGs as were emitted to build and install the system. Because Sunrun’s systems are expected to produce clean energy for 
30 years or longer, our systems prevent the release of harmful GHGs for 97% 
of their lifetime.For each metric ton of CO2e that Sunrun emitted in 2020, the solar energy systems that Sunrun deployed in 2020 are expected to prevent more than 30 metric tons of CO2e emissions over 30 years.FIGURE 6Carbon Payback PeriodLifespan (30 years)POSITIVE CARBON RETURN (29.07 Years)For each metric ton of CO2e emitted by Sunrun in 2020, our entire fleet of solar energy systems has already prevented more than 17 metric tons of CO2e from entering the atmosphere.CARBON PAYBACK PERIOD (0.93 Years)*Emissions Considered: Operations + Supply Chain + End-of-UseEnvironmental ImpactPreserving Clean Air and WaterSSolar energy prevents emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, methane, and ozone that result from the combustion of fossil fuels. The electricity produced by systems that Sunrun deployed in 2020 provides a meaningful reduction of these harmful pollutants by lowering households’ consumption of fossil-fuel electricity. In addition, solar and other renewable sources of electricity emit fewer GHG emissions per kilowatt-hour during their lifecycles than fossil fuels.3,4In addition to preventing the release of air pollutants, Sunrun systems do not consume large amounts of freshwater like fossil-fuel power plants do. Cooling traditional power plants requires the withdrawal of more freshwater reserves than any other activity. Solar energy production helps lessen this freshwater consumption by reducing the use of energy from thermoelectric sources.TABLE 7Air Pollution Prevented and Freshwater ConservedNitrogen 
Oxide 
(Metric Tons 
Prevented)Ozone 
(Metric Tons 
Prevented)Sulfur 
Dioxide 
(Metric Tons 
Prevented)Water 
Consumption 
(Avoided) 2016569,0001,390176202017793,0008601,9402420181,041,0001,1302,5403120191,315,0001,4303,2104020202,7706,250772,557,000Since
20077,211,0007,80017,600217Environmental ImpactEnvironmental 
Management 
SystemAs the largest solar provider in the United States, Sunrun holds ourselves accountable for managing all our environmental impacts in a way that improves the well-being of the planet. This commitment to develop and implement an environmental policy and an environmental management system (EMS)  prioritizes continual improvement. We also study our environmental impacts across our value chain so that we can define environmental performance metrics and improvement targets. In 2020, Sunrun started working with vendors to make utility reporting more robust, which has resulted in significantly improved data for the company’s EMS program. As we continue to improve and create efficiencies as part of the Vivint Solar integration, we expect 2021 to be a breakout year for our efforts to create a more sustainable operating environment. GHG Emissions ComparisonSunrun SystemCoalNatural Gas23.25 
CO2e (g/kWh)979 
CO2e (g/kWh)470
CO2e (g/kWh)24  |  IMPACT REPORT 2020 Environmental ImpactIn 2021, our focus will be improving the sustainability and efficiency of our company’s vehicle fleet.Vehicle FleetWe continually strive for environmental responsibility at Sunrun, including how we manage our vehicle fleet. As we entered 2020, our plans were focused solidly on driving efficiencies through route optimization and moving toward expanding our hybrid vehicle fleet. Unfortunately, we were forced to put many of these efforts on hold in March when COVID-19 required us to adjust our approach to better follow the Center for Disease Control best practice guidelines. In order to maintain proper distancing, we required employees to take separate vehicles. Additionally, our fleet footprint was broadly expanded, along with almost every other aspect of our business, following the acquisition of Vivint Solar. In 2021, our focus will be improving the sustainability and efficiency of our combined company’s vehicle fleet. Sunrun is looking into solutions to incorporate electric vehicles into various parts of our fleet as they become available. This includes setting a goal to have one third of our vehicle fleet be electric or hybrid within five years. In the meantime, we will be adding new, more efficient and eco-friendly vehicles to replace a large portion of our existing fleet. We will also continue to pursue all avenues that would allow us to further expand our hybrid fleet and continue driving optimization through standardization and expansion of our advanced software systems. We plan to expand real-time monitoring telematics solutions to our entire fleet, providing opportunities to track drivers, optimize route patterns that result in enhanced safety, and reduced emissions and operating costs.Environmental ImpactResponding to COVID-19Sunrun followed the Center for Disease Control recommendations and state/local mandates to reduce communal transmission. We went to 100% work-from-home in all but one corporate office. In that one office supporting business-critical work, we required that building capacity not exceed 15%, set desks six feet apart, created traffic flow lanes, mandated mask wearing, and created a unidirectional stair system. In addition, we instituted regular deep-sanitary cleaning to create the most healthy work environment possible, as recommended by top epidemiologists.  FacilitiesIncreasing Facility LED LightingIn 2020, Sunrun continued to move more toward light-emitting diode (LED) warehouse lighting when feasible, adding to our already large portfolio of this more energy efficient technology. Additionally, we added two new properties already fitted with complete LED lighting. LED lights are about 25% more efficient than standard compact fluorescent lamp (CFL) bulbs and about 80% more efficient than halogen bulbs.Move to ElectrificationIn 2020, Sunrun has continued its efforts to utilize electric forklifts in the majority of its warehouses. Electric forklifts have many benefits, including the elimination of tailpipe emissions (reducing GHG emissions), less components and maintenance, and a lower cost of ownership over the life of the equipment.  Vendor SustainabilitySunrun works with vendors that share our commitment to creating a better, greener, and kinder planet. That’s why we included policies on environmental protection and sustainability as well as responsible mineral sourcing in our Vendor Code of Conduct, adopted in January 2019. We expect all of our vendors to adhere to the policies set forth in Sunrun’s Vendor Code of Conduct. Equipment RecyclingAs we continue to grow and deploy systems, we bear significant responsibility for managing the end of life for our hardware. That’s why Sunrun integrates product end-of-life considerations into our EMS and plans to decommission, redeploy, resell, or recycle our energy systems. In 2020 alone, Sunrun redeployed or recycled more than one megawatt of solar panels. Sunrun uses monocrystalline and multicrystalline photovoltaic modules, thereby avoiding the mounting concerns about hazardous materials present in alternative chemistries such as thin-film modules. We are prepared to sustainably dispose of modules, batteries, inverters, and other electronic equipment used in installations through partnerships with third-party recycling and refurbishment vendors, such as Recycle PV Solar, Echo Environmental, and other groups associated with the Solar Industry Energy Association’s (SEIA) National PV Recycling Program. These vendors are certified under the Responsible Recyclers R2:2013, OHSAS 1800:2007, and ISO 14001:2007 standards. We are also working with our third-party vendors to redeploy or resell modules to minimize recycling to support a reduced environmental impact overall. Learn more about the industry’s approach to lifecycle considerations from the SEIA.  Responsible Mineral SourcingSunrun expects its vendors to provide products that contain only responsibly sourced commodities. Vendors that supply products containing minerals (including, but not limited to) cobalt, wolframite (titanium), cassiterite (tin), tungsten, and gold) sourced from conflict-affected and high-risk areas must ensure that the sourcing of these minerals does not knowingly contribute, directly or indirectly, to armed conflict, including terrorist financing or human rights violations. Sunrun expects vendors to source minerals in a manner consistent with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Sunrun recognizes that cobalt, a mineral used in some types of batteries, presents an increased risk of being sourced from areas associated with unfair labor practices. Because of this, we choose to work with battery manufacturers that share our commitment to responsible mineral sourcing. Some of our main suppliers are members of the Responsible Cobalt Initiative, which aims to create a shared set of policies and increase transparency around the cobalt supply chain. Additionally, Sunrun will continue to evaluate battery innovations that may further reduce the mineral content of batteries.Environmental ImpactIn 2020 alone, Sunrun  redeployed or recycled more than one megawatt of solar panels.That’s roughly 6,000 panels 
or 250,000 lbs. 