GovernanceWe work to continually enhance the structures, policies, and internal controls that support and promote accountability, transparency, and ethical behavior.At Sunrun, operating our business with integrity, responsibility, and accountability is a priority.  We believe having a culture of compliance with strong governance practices promote long-term value, and we are committed to conducting business ethically. We work to continually enhance the structures, policies, and internal controls that support and promote accountability, transparency, and ethical behavior. The foundation of operating responsibly is our relationship with our employees and business partners.  We expect all of our employees and partners to act according to the highest standards of honesty and ethical conduct. Our commitment to good corporate governance is reflected in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Human Rights Policy, our Vendor Code of Conduct, and other related governance policies, which are reviewed annually by the Nominating and Governance Committee, and any changes deemed appropriate are submitted to the full Board for its consideration. Sunrun creates value for customers and builds trustworthy relationships by dealing fairly with customers, suppliers, government agencies, competitors, and employees. We also promote accountability internally by holding regular staff meetings and sharing financial performance and company updates with employees.Sunrun maintains a strong open-door policy, a confidential employee hotline administered by an independent company, and an employee-relations team in our human-resources function dedicated to thoroughly and fairly investigating all employee complaints.GovernanceBoard of DirectorsThe Board of Directors makes recommendations and conducts unbiased evaluation and supervision of management activities. It maintains an independent majority at all times and comprises seven members, all but two of whom are independent. Gerald Risk serves as Lead Independent Director and is responsible for overseeing separate meetings of the independent directors. Our co-founder Edward Fenster has served as Chairman since March 2014. The Board has four female members, including our CEO Lynn Jurich.The Board has three committees. The Audit Committee assists the board in ensuring we uphold the highest standards of financial integrity through accounting transparency and conformance, as well as risk management. The Compensation Committee seeks to align executive compensation with shareholders’ interests and corporate goals. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees the evaluation of the Board, assists in recommending new director candidates and developing and maintaining corporate-governance policies, and oversees ESG initiatives and reporting at the board level. Human Rights PolicyOur board of directors adopted a Human Rights Policy to codify our commitment to human rights, including the following key impact area: (i) protecting of the environment, (ii) maintaining high labor standards, and (iii) operating ethically and with integrity. We believe that climate change is a fundamental human rights issue, as the devastating impacts of climate change not only impact our planet, but also our lives, wellbeing, housing, and food and water security. While human rights are the responsibility of all of us at Sunrun, executive oversight and responsibility for the implementation of this policy rests with our ESG Executive Management Committee and with the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee at the board level.Vendor Integrity and EthicsWe require our vendors to act with integrity and to adhere to our Vendor Code 
of Conduct. This Vendor Code of Conduct, along with Sunrun’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, prohibits undisclosed conflicts of interest, money-laundering, whistleblower retribution, human trafficking, and involuntary labor. Whistleblower ProtectionSunrun is committed to maintaining high standards of financial integrity and takes very seriously all complaints and concerns regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing, and other legal matters, including violations of Sunrun’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Sunrun maintains an Open Door Policy and welcomes feedback and assistance in maintaining our commitment to these policies. Sunrun prohibits retribution or retaliation in any way against any person who has in good faith made a complaint or reported a concern or against any person who assists in any investigation. Sunrun also requires that vendors strive to allow their workforces to raise similar concerns without fear 
of retaliation. 2021 Compensation Governance & Philosophy For 2021, the key elements of our executive compensation program will include the existing components of base salary, annual cash bonus incentive awards, time-based equity awards, and health, welfare and retirement programs, as well as the introduction of performance-based equity awards. The performance-based equity awards will be multi-year awards tied to our achievement of certain synergies related to our acquisition of Vivint Solar and performance targets measured by Total Value Generated.  We believe that providing a portfolio of performance-based equity awards, time-based equity awards, and cash compensation supports the objectives of our long-term incentive compensation program by further aligning the interests of our executive officers and stockholders, balancing performance and retention considerations, and enabling us to use our equity compensation resources more efficiently.We also maintain a “clawback policy” that would allow us to recover certain cash or equity-based incentive compensation payments or awards made or granted to certain executive officers in the event of misconduct that results in the need for us to prepare a material financial restatement or material restatement of certain operational results.For more information on corporate governance matters, including shareholder rights, Sunrun’s approach to management compensation, and board structure, please see Sunrun’s annual proxy statement, which is filed with the SEC and available on the company’s Investor Relations website at investors.sunrun.com. Sunrun’s Board of Directors has four female members, including our CEO Lynn Jurich.GovernanceSunrun prohibits retribution or retaliation in any way against any person who has in good faith made a complaint or reported a concern.GovernanceSustainable Development Goals (SDG)5ZERO 
HUNGERGOOD HEALTH 
& WELL-BEINGNO 
POVERTYWe are proud that our business aligns with The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). This set of 17 goals is designed to eradicate poverty, eliminate inequalities, and spur the creation of a sustainable and resilient global society. Sunrun is pleased to support the goals through the following contributions:Sunrun is committed to ensuring a sustainable world that supports health, safety, and equality for all. We are creating good-paying jobs, promoting employee wellness programs, and helping customers save hundreds of millions of dollars in energy costs.  Sunrun has generated more than eleven billion kilowatt hours of clean energy since 2007 and prevented 8.1 million tons of CO2 equivalent from entering the atmosphere. This number will continue to grow over the next decade. The energy from home solar and batteries displaces fossil fuel power plants, creating better, healthier air for all. Sunrun has pledged to install at least 100 megawatts of solar on affordable housing in California - where 80% of tenants fall below 60% of the area median income - before 2030. We have already saved over 100,000 low-and-moderate income household residents more than $10 million dollars in energy cost. We have also supported more than 3,500 hours of job training for residents of these communities. QUALITY
EDUCATIONCLEAN WATER 
& SANITATIONGENDER EQUALITYWe are integrating product end-of-life considerations into our environmental management system (EMS) and are preparing to decommission, redeploy, resell, or recycle, our energy systems. Responsible cradle-to-grave management of product life cycles is a key factor in maintaining our clean water reserves.Sunrun promotes and supports solar job training programs in disadvantaged communities throughout all across the country. We have supported tens of thousands of hours of job training over the past decade, working with partners like GRID Alternatives, Blacks in Green, Chicago Urban League, Rising Sun, National Latino Education Institute, NAACP Solar Equity Initiative, and several others.In 2018, Sunrun became the first national solar company to achieve 100% gender pay parity. We also committed to the White House Equal Pay Pledge in 2016 and the California Equal Pay Pledge and offer equal parental leave for men and women. As of December 31, 2020, women made up 50% of our executive team, and 43% of our Board of Directors.GovernanceAFFORDABLE & CLEAN ENERGYINDUSTRY, 
INNOVATION & INFRASTRUCTUREDECENT WORK 
& ECONOMIC 
GROWTHFinancial sustainability and ethical business practices are core to the company’s philosophy. We ended 2020 with more than 550,000 customers, an 18% year over year increase, pro-forma to include the acquisition of Vivint Solar. We are now one of the largest solar asset owners in the world. This goal is the underlying mission for our entire business. We offer clean and reliable solar power at an affordable price. Our solar service financing model has made home solar accessible to many, and we are leading the way with our work installing solar on low-and-moderate income multifamily households across the country.Sunrun is constantly innovating to build the energy system of the future. We are creating a vast network of connected homes with solar-powered battery systems to create what’s known as “virtual power plants.” Sunrun has 12 virtual power plants in contract with many more planned for the future. 
These will help displace fossil fuel 
plants one by one.REDUCED 
INEQUALITYRESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION & PRODUCTIONCLIMATE 
ACTIONSUSTAINABLE 
CITIES & 
COMMUNITIESWe seek to attract, develop, advance and retain the best diverse talent and focus on hiring underrepresented groups across all functions and managerial levels. Sunrun signed both the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion and the Catalyst CEO Champions for Change pledges. These commitments will help Sunrun and other member companies achieve our goals to become a model for gender equality, diversity and inclusion. Creating a clean, reliable and renewable distributed grid system is a direct adaptation to climate change. We are working every day to expand clean energy across the globe, and have already offset 8.1 million cumulative metric tons of carbon since 2007.Sunrun engages in the most responsible end of life equipment programs in the industry, and we expect all of our vendors to adhere to the policies set forth in Sunrun’s Vendor Code of Conduct. We are integrating product end-of-life considerations into our EMS and plans to decommission, redeploy, resell, or recycle our energy systems.Sunrun’s local solar and battery systems are working every day to reduce the amount of local air pollution in our communities by generating clean, renewable energy from the sun. Our networked energy systems are also helping to retire fossil fuel plants, many of which are disproportionately impacting vulnerable and low income communities.PEACE, JUSTICE 
AND STRONG 
INSTITUTIONSLIFE BELOW 
WATERPARTNERSHIPS TO ACHIEVE THE GOALLIFE ON LANDSunrun is committed to ensuring a 
more sustainable world and has offset 
8.1 million cumulative metric tons of carbon since 2007, helping to preserve our precious land-based environments. We are putting solar on built environments like single-family and multi-family homes, which preserves 
our ever-decreasing open spaces across the country.Sunrun works hand in hand with nonprofits, utilities, advocacy groups, policymakers, and other clean energy industry stakeholders to ensure we are working toward building a just transition to create a planet run by the sun. Sunrun strives to create an open and inclusive culture where everyone’s unique backgrounds, thoughts, experiences and abilities are welcomed, valued, respected and celebrated. In 2020, we recommitted to and expanded our six Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to create and sustain a workplace where everyone belongs.Ocean acidification is caused by the ocean absorbing large amounts of carbon dioxide. Sunrun is committed to ensuring a more sustainable world and has offset 8.1 million cumulative metric tons of carbon since 2007, helping to preserve our precious water-based environments. 