Vision and ValuesWe can decarbonize our energy system with the technology we have today. Sunrun is accelerating 
this wide-scale transformation with affordable, reliable, and clean energy solutions like home solar 
and rechargeable battery storage. We will drive the electrification of our homes and transportation by harnessing the sun to power our lives with abundance. We will never pump gas again and our families will be cooled and warmed by cleaner, all-electric devices. This future will also help households better manage their energy bills. It will also save everyone money by creating a more efficient system and reducing the need for expensive energy infrastructure like long-distance poles and wires. The problem of runaway pollution is real. Today’s energy system creates the majority of the world’s carbon emissions. The climate crisis has led to an increased threat of wildfires, hurricanes, and other natural disasters that are severely straining the outdated technology that generates and delivers our power. We have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to build a sustainable future for humanity. The quicker we deploy our solutions, the faster we can decommission legacy fossil fuel power plants. Sunrun’s success is the planet’s success.Our core values of being human-centered and making an impact anchor our drive to achieve this transformation. We prioritize our activities and decisions that make a difference and best serve our customers. Our teams also bring a diversity of perspectives to all steps of the problem-solving process. By cultivating empathy for all of our customers, and working together to solve problems as a team, we are able to design elegant solutions that more fully meet customers’ needs. The past year has tested these values more than ever before. The COVID-19 pandemic is like nothing else in modern history. It has forced us to rethink the way we operate as a business, engage each other, and go about our daily lives. It has put a new emphasis on the importance of reliable and affordable home energy as our households were transformed into the place we live, work, play, and find solace. The pandemic highlights why local energy resiliency and affordable clean power are so important to our collective future. As we move forward, Sunrun is once again reaffirming its commitment to serving all stakeholders, including our employees, our customers, our financial partners, and the communities in which we operate. In 2020 we hosted quarterly meetings with our executive Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Committee. This group is made up of senior management tasked with aligning our ESG priorities with the company’s broader vision and mission.The Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee of our  Board of Directors also provided oversight of our  ESG goals and performance. The acquisition of Vivint Solar solidified Sunrun’s position as the leader in home solar and energy services across the U.S. and a top owner of solar assets globally with more than three gigawatts of solar energy. Our combined company’s expanded solar footprint has prevented greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions totaling 8.1 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e), which is a more than 50% increase from the previous year. 2020 served as an inflection point, and now is the time for the next chapter in America’s energy narrative. Through our commitment to our customers, our employees and our environment, Sunrun will lead the energy transformation towards a distributed, sustainable future.Letter 
from the FoundersLYNN JURICHCo-founder and 
Chief Executive OfficerEDWARD FENSTERCo-founder and 
Executive ChairmanLYNN JURICHCo-founder and 
Chief Executive OfficerEDWARD FENSTERCo-founder and 
Executive Chairman4  |  IMPACT REPORT 2020 Vision and ValuesCompany
ValuesAt Sunrun, values guide the way we 
work and live. The company has six core values that ensure we are providing the best customer experience and being the 
best coworkers we can be. These shared values are:Human-CenteredIntegrityCuriosityPassionCourageImpactVision and ValuesCuriosityOur team has boundless curiosity. 
We regard every interaction as an opportunity to learn. We commit to curiosity as a path to rapid learning and creating momentum to advance our mission. We are not attached to the way things currently are or to being right. 
We realize that diversity brings a 360 degree view of the world around us. Differing perspectives help us make 
better decisions.Human-Centered Humanity is at the core of our business—our customers, our team, and our partners are all incredible human beings. We treat safety seriously. The safety and well-being of a person always comes first. That’s why we design processes and experiences knowing another person is the recipient and audience. We make things simple, easy to use, understandable and easy to remember, and we communicate like regular people and avoid jargon.IntegrityBeing on our team means operating with absolute integrity. We are known for candor, authenticity, transparency and not withholding. We make impeccable agreements with our customers, team members, and partners. If for some reason we can’t keep the agreement, we renegotiate in a straight-forward, honest way. Everyone has a voice and we value the differences between individuals as diversity. Everyone is held to the same standards of conduct and behavior.Vision and ValuesPassionPassion is an irresistible driving force at Sunrun. We share our full magnificence and don’t hold anything back. We stay positive and solution-oriented especially when tackling big, important projects. We love talking to our customers and we appreciate our interactions and contributions. CourageWe exhibit courage and fortitude. This is done through acting boldly and having the fortitude to stand behind our recommendations, decisions and actions. We are resilient and find alternatives if things don’t work out as expected. We see what is missing in the world as an invitation to become that which is required. We stand up when we see actions inconsistent with our values.ImpactThere is no doubt that the work we are doing as a team will forever alter the world. We concentrate our genius, our resources and our focus on the most critical business priorities and objectives. We will scale smartly to deliver industry-leading, profitable growth that builds a business to last 
for decades.Vision and ValuesAbout SunrunSunrun Inc. (Nasdaq:RUN) is the nation’s leading home solar, battery storage, and energy services company. Founded in 2007, Sunrun pioneered home solar service plans to make local clean energy more accessible to everyone for little to no upfront cost. Sunrun’s innovative home battery solution, Brightbox, brings families affordable, resilient, and reliable energy. The company can also manage and share stored solar energy from the batteries to provide benefits to households, utilities, and the electric grid while reducing our reliance on polluting energy sources. For more information, please visit www.sunrun.com. About the 
ReportThis is our fourth annual Impact Report. We are pleased to show improvement from the last three years and will continue to evaluate the impact of our business on the world around us. We see this report as a holistic resource for ourselves, our shareholders, our partners, and our customers to measure our success as a sustainable business.Vision and ValuesOrganizational 
ProfileSunrun pioneered the “solar-as.-a.-service” model 14 years ago. Since 
then, we have been delivering on a vision to create a planet run by the sun and provide Americans with affordable, reliable, and clean energy.HERE’S HOW IT WORKS•	We assess the best solar or solar-powered 
home battery solution to meet a household’s energy needs •	Our experienced team designs and installs a system customized to the household’s specific 
roof and home specifications •	The household simply pays a low, locked-.in rate for the power that’s produced, helping families better manage their electric bill without big upfront costs•	We handle the financing, insurance, monitoring, and repairs for the life of the system•	Sunrun’s home battery service, Brightbox, delivers critical backup power, often at less than the cost of traditional grid power without the technology  Sunrun’s history of blending innovation with expertise began when Sunrun co-founders, Lynn Jurich and Ed Fenster, invented this model of solar service. They made clean solar energy affordable, mainstream, and accessible for many more Americans. This innovation continued with Sunrun’s Brightbox, a home solar and battery service. The rechargeable home solar battery system offers people the peace of mind that comes with backup electricity and the ability to better manage the energy generated directly from their rooftops.Vision and ValuesOur 
CustomersOur 
EmployeesOur 
ImpactSunrun employs more than 8,500 people throughout the United States with a focus on fostering a culture of inclusive, connected, diverse teams coming together to do their best work everyday to meet the needs of our customers and build a planet run by the sun.  Sunrun provides home solar and rechargeable battery storage services from coast to coast, in 22 states plus Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia1. We proudly serve more than 550,000 customers across the country and are growing rapidly. Sunrun has generated more than 11 billion kilowatt hours of clean energy since 2007 and prevented 8.1 million tons of CO2 from entering the atmosphere. This is the equivalent of preventing carbon dioxide emissions from more than 8.9 billion pounds of coal, or 908 million gallons of gasoline.Vision and Values•	We plan to build a network of solar systems that will offset carbon emissions by more than 600 million metric tons over their lifetimes 
in the next decade. •	We are setting a goal to decrease the overall carbon intensity of 
our operations by 20% by 2030. •	We are setting a goal to achieve net zero carbon emissions of our operations by 2040.•	We are setting a goal to decrease our transportation emissions by having one third electric or hybrid fleet within 5 years.•	We are setting a goal to achieve 100% equipment recycling at each facility within 5 years.Committing 
to Our FutureGOAL 1 Sunrun is committed to 
mitigating the 
impacts of anthropogenic climate change.The future depends on a rapid global transformation of our energy system. Our work at Sunrun to deploy local solar and batteries at scale will accelerate electrification and ultimately decarbonization. We are creating the foundation for the rest of the world to use and benefit from, such as providing access to more reliable, affordable, and clean energy.  Here at Sunrun, we pledge to continue our commitment to sustainability. Consistent with Sunrun’s core values of Human-Centricity, Impact, Integrity, Passion, Curiosity and Courage, Sunrun’s leadership has committed to the following goals for our environmental 
and societal development:GOAL 2 Sunrun is committed to building a diverse, fair and equitable workforce.•	We will sustain our focus on pay equity through periodic review.•	We will embed the principles of diversity, inclusion and belonging as implicit in everything we do.•	We will foster the growth of our Employee Resource Groups to support inclusion and belonging among our employees, improve awareness, and drive greater social impact.•	We will foster a diverse workforce that represents our customers, and the communities in which we live and work. We strive to do this through gender representation parity in director and above roles by 2025 and race/ethnicity representation parity in manager roles by 2025.GOAL 3 Sunrun is committed to 
improving environmental equity and justice.•	We are setting a goal to contribute 100,000 employee volunteering hours by 2030.•	We plan to bring at least 500 megawatts of low-income solar to people across the country by 2030, benefiting hundreds of thousands of residents of disadvantaged communities.Vision and ValuesOur 
Impact in NumbersSunrun’s impact on the Environment11.4 billionCumulative kilowatt hours of 
clean energy produced since 20078.1 millionCumulative metric tons of carbon offset by Sunrun since 2007That is the equivalent to negating:1.5 minutesHow often a new Sunrun system is installed20 billion miles driven by an average passenger vehicle4 billionKilowatt hours of clean energy produced in 20203,885 megawattsNetworked Solar Energy Capacity, representing the cumulative amount 
of solar deployed since 2007 and 
making Sunrun one of the largest 
solar companies in the world908 million gallons of gasoline1.3 millionhomes’ electricity use for a yearVision and ValuesOur 
Impact in NumbersSunrun’s impact on Energy Customers550 thousandNumber of total customers across the U.S.$600 millionThe amount of savings we have provided to our customers16 thousandNumber of solar-powered rechargeable battery customers across the U.S.5-45%Typical bill savings for 
a Sunrun customerVision and ValuesOur 
Impact in NumbersSunrun’s impact, through its low-and-median income multifamily work, on the Community425Number of  projects 
supported by Sunrun100 thousandLow-and-median income 
residents impacted across 
more than 35,000 units99 thousandMWh of clean solar energy produced per year through 
these installations$11 millionEstimated total value of solar 
provided directly to tenants3,500Solar job training hours for residents of these communitiesVision and ValuesTABLE 1Growing Customer Base+550,000 Customers1Networked Solar Energy Capacity 
of 3,885 MWs218% y/y growth in Networked Solar Energy Capacity3Financial 
SustainabilityTABLE 2Net Earning Assets Now at $4.2 BillionSunrun has delivered robust growth over its 14 year history and aims to generate strong returns to our financial partners while building a solid financial foundation that allows the company to make a meaningful impact for decades to come. Financial sustainability is core to the company’s philosophy.Our operating and financial performance highlights our discipline and commitment to sustainability. We ended 2020 with more than 550,000 customers, an 18% year over year improvement, pro-forma to include Vivint Solar. We adapted swiftly to the dynamic environment during the year, improving our cost structure, increasing our market position, and strengthening our competitive advantages. We have $9 billion of gross solar system assets on our balance sheet and have largely funded our growth with non-recourse project debt and tax equity.  Sunrun ended 2020 with $7.8 billion in Gross Earning Assets and $4.2 billion in Net Earning Assets.  The company has $5 billion in non-recourse debt, which is solely secured by the solar energy systems.2020 FINANCIAL & OPERATION HIGHLIGHTS•	Total Revenue of $922 million, an increase of 7% compared to 2019•	Customer Agreements revenue of $484 million, an increase 
of 25% compared to 2019•	550,000 customers at year-end, 18% year-over-year growth 
pro-forma to include Vivint Solar•	Net Earning Assets of $4.2 billionPlease see our periodic reports filed with the SEC and our quarterly earnings presentations available on our website at investors.sunrun.com for important information about our metrics and their definitions, as well as our financial statements.