EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENTSunrun is dedicated to providing all our employees with opportunities and tools for skill development. Managers conduct professional-development “check-ins” with their employees three times per year. These discussions focus on constructive feedback, skill building, and development planning. They are purposefully separated from annual compensation discussions to allow for open dialogue regarding growth areas and career interests. Typically 80-90% of our employees will complete check-ins with their managers during each period.CAREER TRAINING Beginning with new-hire orientation and covering all levels up to advanced leadership training for senior managers, Sunrun offers cross-functional training to all employees. Our training options include a robust library of online curricula, such as electronic learning modules from third parties and more than 200 custom, Sunrun-developed eMods. These eMods range from two-minute how-to videos to complex, multi-hour training programs. In 2017, employees spent over 7,500 hours completing online learning courses, and Sunrun delivered 550 days of instructor-led webinar training. Sunrun has created and owns more than 1,000 learning assets, which are available to employees at all times to help them perform their jobs safely and successfully. The company also offers licenses to Lynda.com, an on-demand learning solution designed to provide our employees with the tools to take charge of their development, gain new skills, and advance their careers. Lynda.com has thousands of engaging courses created by industry experts and has enabled employees to hone their skills in a variety of areas. Sunrun’s 580 active users of Lynda.com spent more than 1,220 hours developing their skills on the platform in 2017. Sunrun has developed and runs two comprehensive management-development programs. Leadership Fundamentals focuses on new managers. To date, more than 400 people managers at Sunrun have completed the program. Leadership Essentials for experienced and senior leaders is a multi-month program intended to create the best leaders in business. Comparably recognized Sunrun on its Best Company Managers list for 2017.EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENTDIVERSITY AND INCLUSIONAccording to the Solar Foundation’s 2017 National Solar Jobs Census, 27% of solar jobs are held by women, 7% by African Americans, and 9% by veterans. Sunrun is approximately on par with these metrics, and we are taking steps to increase the diversity of our workforce and establish our company as an industry leader in employee opportunity. The company has a dedicated diversity and inclusion program manager who oversees and reinforces opportunities for women, military veterans, and members of the LGBT community. “Diversity and inclusion are essential Sunrun priorities as we build a sustainable future for humanity. Our people’s differences and human experiences fuel innovation and help us make better decisions.”-CEO LYNN JURICHGENDER DIVERSITYWomen comprise 38% of Sunrun’s board and 50% of our senior management team. Our organizational leadership includes approximately 31% women. Approximately 25% of all Sunrun employees are women.27 Sunrun expects this overall percentage to increase as we strive to recruit workers on a gender-blind basis.GENDER DIVERSITY WITHIN SUNRUN100%63%50%69%75%Men50%Women38%50%31%25%0%Board of
DirectorsSenior Management TeamOrganizational LeadershipWorkforce
(Includes all 
construction jobs.)Sunrun is committed to providing equal and fair pay to all employees, as we seek to address the broad societal challenge of the gender-pay gap. Sunrun signed the White House Equal Pay Pledge in 2016. As part of that pledge, we conduct an annual company-wide gender-pay analysis to identify and address equal-pay issues. We also strive to identify, examine, and implement other best practices to promote fundamental fairness for all workers. For example, to address the gender-pay gap that can occur as men and women move from job to job, Sunrun voluntarily stopped asking applicants for their salary history at the beginning of 2016, more than 18 months before this practice became law in California and New York City. We adhere to this practice on a national basis.Sunrun knows that pay equity is a fundamental issue of fairness for families, affecting men as much as it affects women. We offer both men and women 10 weeks of paid parental leave at 100% of their base salary and encourage all employees to use their leave. Employees continue to accrue seniority during parental leave.EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENTETHNIC DIVERSITY WITHIN SUNRUNCaucasian21%Asian2%African American47%4%Latino / HispanicNative American, Alaskan Native, Hawaiian Native13%Two or More Races6%7%Not Specified / Not Disclosed
AGE DIVERSITY WITHIN SUNRUN12%31%Under 3030-50Over 5057%SUNRUN WOMEN’S NETWORKWomen are paving the way for future generations at Sunrun. In an industry traditionally dominated by men, Sunrun is dedicated to empowering women and developing a gender-balanced workforce. In 2017, Sunrun was included on Comparably’s annual list of Best Companies for Women. The Sunrun Women’s Network (SWN) facilitates the advancement of women by promoting diversity throughout the employee lifecycle. Beginning in the recruitment phase, SWN creates processes for developing and promoting women across the company. The initiative also helps promote networking within Sunrun, in our communities, and in the wider solar industry. It provides women with opportunities to attend events, hear guest speakers, and collaborate on projects. In addition, Sunrun hosts a group for women in technology jobs, which provides employees with mentoring, sponsorship opportunities, and training and development. 