Living Our ValuesHealth and
SafetySunrun believes access to a healthy and safe workplace is a fundamental human right, and ensuring the safety of Sunrunners, our customers, and local communities is Sunrun’s first priority. 
Our comprehensive health and safety program goes beyond the requirements of all state and federal regulations. Creating a Culture of SafetyAs part of Sunrun’s commitment to safety, we launched ongoing campaigns to create a culture where employees feel a sense of responsibility for the safety and wellbeing of their teammates. Our Why We Work Safely campaign urges employees to adhere to safe working practices whether they are on a rooftop, on the road, or in the office. Our Caught Working Safely campaign empowers employees to report any near-miss incidents to their supervisors so that appropriate measures can be taken. Sunrun also maintains an anonymous hotline for employees to report safety incidents or concerns. These efforts contributed to a nearly 3% reduction in Sunrun’s near-miss frequency rate (NMFR) from 2017 to 2018.27Living Our ValuesComprehensive Safety Training and Certification Sunrun’s learning management system offers safety training courses for all OSHA-required safety topics and other topics specific to Sunrun. All of these courses are customized for the solar industry and reflect best practices for construction safety. Newly hired solar installers, electricians, and site assessors must complete two full days of safety and quality training before they can participate in an installation. Once new hires are awarded Sunrun’s Construction Safety Certificate and Commercial Vehicle Safety Certificate, they receive state-of-the-art personal protective equipment appropriate for their job function. In addition to new-hire training, Sunrun provides weekly toolbox talks, ongoing certifications, and regular safety bulletins. Installers receive an average of 40 hours of documented training in their first year of employment.External certification programs further support Sunrun’s commitment to best-in-class safety. All energized electrical work is performed by licensed journeyman or master electricians, depending on the state. Sunrun’s Safety Department is staffed by two Certified Safety Professionals (CSP) credentialed through the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP). Leaders in Sunrun’s quality department hold PV Installation certifications from the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioners (NABCEP) and OSHA 30 cards. All construction supervisors and foremen maintain CPR certification.Verification and Compliance Sunrun ensures compliance with safe practices through vehicle monitoring, safety inspections, and auditing of quality assurance (QA) photographs. The telematics devices in each of our fleet vehicles constantly transmit data 
on speed, driving behavior, and location to a central database. Supervisors use the data to monitor employees’ driving habits so they can instruct them in safe driving techniques. In addition, Sunrun takes photographs to document installation practices on 100% of its job sites and audits those photos to ensure that our work is performed to high standards. Sunrun’s safety and quality departments also conduct random job-site and facility audits to verify compliance and comprehension of training.28Living Our ValuesNew Safety InitiativesSunrun will extend its safety program further into the build partner network in 2019. Many smaller solar electric contractors cannot accommodate a full-time staff member to manage health and safety and struggle to build an effective safety culture on their own. Starting with inspections of third-party installation job sites, the Sunrun safety team will coach partners in how to comply with OSHA regulations while maintaining highly efficient construction operations.Worker Participation in Health and SafetySunrun’s management team meets every month to participate in an environmental, health, and safety committee meeting. EHS committee meetings were well attended in 2018 by operations managers, construction supervisors, and directors of support functions. Safety incident trends, policy changes, and employee suggestions are discussed in an open forum where everyone is encouraged to participate. The minutes of these meetings are distributed to branch office supervisors, who then share the information with their employees at weekly safety toolbox talks. Workers are encouraged to discuss safety issues with their foremen every morning at their crew huddles. Product SafetySunrun’s Safety and Logistics departments collaborate on the selection of all new products. When a new chemical is considered for use in field, office, or warehouse environments, Sunrun first evaluates the health and environmental hazards documented on the safety data sheet published by the chemical’s manufacturer. Only products that can be safely handled with basic personal protective equipment are accepted for use by Sunrun employees. 29Living Our ValuesSafety RecordSunrun’s safety record continues to improve as we focus on injury prevention and recovery management. Historical safety incident rates, near-miss frequency rates (NMFR), work-related fatalities (WRF), and experience modification rates (EMR) are presented below. Sunrun’s total recordable injury rate (TRIR) showed an 18% improvement in 2018, to 3.2, and is comparable to the residential construction industry’s TRIR of 3.3, as reported by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. This improvement, as well as the 51% improvement in lost-time incident rate (LTIR) from 2017 to 2018, is attributable to the efforts of Sunrun’s dedicated incident management staff. Vendor Health and SafetyOur commitment to ensuring safe and injury-free workplaces extends to our vendors. Sunrun’s Vendor Code of Conduct requires that all vendors provide workers with a safe and healthy work environment. We require vendors to comply with all applicable health and safety laws, regulations, and practices, including those relating to occupational safety, emergency preparedness, occupational injury and illness, industrial hygiene, physically demanding work, machine safeguarding, sanitation, food, and housing. We also require vendors to ensure that all required permits, licenses, and registrations are obtained, maintained, and kept up-to date and that all workers are qualified and equipped to perform activities safely and responsibly.To ensure that vendors abide by Sunrun’s Vendor Code of Conduct and applicable laws and regulations, we may conduct periodic vendor audits. When an audit uncovers a violation, Sunrun may terminate its relationship with the vendor and impose restrictions on future business unless the violation is promptly corrected. Sunrun aims to survey vendors that comprise at least 80% of total value transacted with Sunrun, along with new vendors, seeking affirmations that each vendor is aware of and compliant with the Vendor Code of Conduct. Occupational Health and Safety Metrics 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Experience Modification Rate 
(EMR) (WCIRB) 1.19 0.71 0.67 1.02 1.15 Experience Modification Rate 
(EMR) (NCCI) 0.67 0.61 0.87 0.63 1.03 Near-miss Frequency Rate 
(NMFR) 0.86 0.85 1.54 2.86 2.78 Work-related Fatalities 
(WRF) 0 0 0 1 0 Total Recordable Injury Rate 
(TRIR) 2.02 4.07 4.74 3.92 3.21 Lost-time Incident Rate 
(LTIR) 0.22 1.20 1.54 0.76 0.37 Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred Rate (DART) 1.30 3.13 3.94 2.96 2.41 |2018 IMPACT REPORT Living Our ValuesEmployee Development and WellnessSunrun is dedicated to providing training, education, and development to all of our employees. We offer cross-functional training, beginning with new-hire orientation and covering all levels up to advanced leadership training for senior managers. All employees receive multiple professional development check-ins with their managers throughout the year, which supplement annual performance reviews. Training options include a robust library of online curricula, such as electronic learning modules from third parties and more than 200 custom Sunrun-developed eMods, which range from two-minute how-to videos to complex, multi-hour training programs. We have created more than 1,000 learning assets, which are available to employees at all times to help them perform their jobs safely and successfully. We also offer licenses to Lynda.com, an on-demand learning solution designed to provide our employees with the tools to take charge of their development, gain new skills, and advance their careers. Our new Learning Management System, Litmos, has 10,000 active users, who recorded 50,000 course achievements by the end of 2018. We now have access to user engagement data, including analytics on knowledge checks, that allow us to make sound decisions regarding curation of learning content and provide learning data for the organization as a whole.For managers, we have developed two comprehensive training programs. More than 540 employees have completed the Leadership Fundamentals program, which focuses on developing new managers. For experienced and senior leaders, Leadership Success is a multi-month program intended to create the best leaders in business. Employee SatisfactionWe want to make Sunrun an exceptional place to work. To measure employee engagement and satisfaction, we conduct a company-wide survey twice a year. Responses are anonymous to encourage employees to provide honest, candid feedback. In 2018, Sunrun was recognized by Comparably for Best Company Culture.|2018 IMPACT REPORT Camp
FirePhoto from the customer’s home during the Camp Fire evacuation “Everything happened really fast. She was starting to panic, so we tried to keep her focused. We knew we 
had to help.” RYAN PARSONS
Sunrun EmployeeCamp Fire EvacuationFor Ryan Parsons and his solar panel installation crew, November 8 started like any other day. The crew arrived 
at Sunrun’s warehouse at around 6:00 am, loaded their trucks, and left by 6:15 am to install a solar energy 
system at a customer’s home. Plugging the address into Google Maps, they settled in for the 90-minute drive
to Paradise, California.Ryan describes the weather that day as unusually windy, with gusts nearing 40 miles per hour. What he and his 
crew didn’t know was that shortly after they left the warehouse that morning, a fire started just miles away from
their destination, and the strong wind was fanning it. “As we were driving, there was a huge plume of smoke in 
the distance. But we didn’t know where it was, so we kept going,” recalled Ryan.As the crew approached the customer’s home, the scene grew darker, even though no clouds obscured the sun. That was when they realized they were getting closer to the fire. “When we pulled into the neighborhood, a woman honked at us and yelled at us to stop,” said Ryan. “But there were no firefighters around and the fire wasn’t visible, so we decided we should check on the customer.... Continuing was just instinct. We didn’t really think about it.”When the crew arrived at the home, the customer answered the door. Along with her family, she had woken up 5 minutes before the evacuation notice. “Everything happened really fast,” remembered Ryan. “She was starting to panic, so we tried to keep her focused. We knew we had to help.”Ryan ran outside to monitor the situation while his team helped the family gather important documents and start loading their car. Time began to blur as they focused on escaping to safety, but Ryan recalls standing outside and seeing the red glow in the sky. “That was when I knew we had to go,” he said. “I yelled to the team and pleaded with her, ‘We have to get out of here!’”With no time left, the crew helped the family into their car and returned to their trucks. “We pulled out of the driveway and they followed us,” recalled Ryan. “We just did what we had to do.” The team learned soon after that the customer’s house burned down 45 minutes after they left.Ryan Parsons has been with Sunrun for ten years, Nick Baatrup has been with the company for seven, and Dasean Hale has been a Sunrun installer since July 2018. The other team members there that day were Micah Garley, Rick Hernandez, and Emmanuelle Jaramillo.Camp FireThe Sunrun Team in Sacramento, California33Living Our ValuesBenefits ProgramOur competitive benefits program provides employees with the means to ensure the wellness of both themselves and their families. Full-time employees are eligible for the Sunrun benefits package, which includes medical, dental, vision, life, and disability insurance. It also includes an employee stock-purchase plan (ESPP) and a 401(k) retirement plan. In 2018, we added a company match feature to the 401(k) plan, under which Sunrun matches each employee’s contributions up to a specific percentage, to attract and retain talent at all levels of the organization and help individuals invest for their future. We believe it is important for our employees to spend time with their families and focus on personal well being. 
In addition to 11 paid holidays and traditional paid time off, Sunrun offers these additional leaves:VOLUNTEER DAYS
2 paid days per year to allow our employees 
to help build stronger communitiesFLEXIBLE HOLIDAY
1 annuallyMILITARY LEAVE
10 days of paid leave for active service BABY BONDING
10 weeks of paid parental leave, available to both men and women at 100% of their base salary, with no interruption in the accrual of seniorityWellness and BalanceSunrun also offers all full-time employees an array of comprehensive wellness benefits. We keep these benefits cost-effective for employees, regularly leading our industry peers in the quality and the cost of benefit plans.These benefits include:•	Health webinars•	Maven maternity and paternity program for new parents with 24/7 maternity concierge services, on-demand digital clinics, and online community forums•	Smoking cessation programs•	Blood drives•	Weight Watchers memberships•	Stress relief services•	On-site flu shots and wellness checks at facilities with large workforces•	Telemedicine services for fast assistance with general health needs•	Fitness center discounts•	Employee assistance program•	Mental health counseling34Living Our ValuesDiversity and InclusionAt Sunrun, we believe in a culture that values and respects diversity and inclusion. We are committed to ensuring diversity of thought, style, culture, and skills. Our unique perspectives are esteemed and celebrated.Gender DiversityWomen are paving the way for future generations at Sunrun. In an industry traditionally dominated by men, Sunrun is dedicated to empowering women and developing a gender-balanced workforce. In 2018, Sunrun was included on Comparably’s annual list of Best Companies for Women. Women comprised 38% of Sunrun’s Board of Directors and 50% of our senior management team in 2018. Our organizational leadership included approximately 27% women. Approximately 23% of all Sunrun employees are women. Sunrun expects this overall percentage to increase as we strive to recruit workers on a gender-blind basis.Supplier DiversityAt Sunrun, we aim to provide equal opportunity for businesses owned by historically underrepresented communities to bid on supply chain contracts. This includes minority-, women-, disabled-, veteran-, and LGBTQ-owned businesses. As stated in our Vendor Code of Conduct, vendors are expected to demonstrate a commitment to inclusive business practices, including diversity in their workplaces, and to deliver innovative solutions that reflect the diverse experiences, thoughts, and identities represented throughout their business.In 2018, we took more steps to develop supply chain management processes to improve our performance with respect to supplier diversity. Establishing ourselves as a committed market participant with respect to supplier diversity aligns with our internal values and will help ensure we maintain our license to operate, all while supporting broader diversity initiatives in the industry and the markets we serve.Oshaylee “Osh” ThomasOsh Thomas joined Sunrun as a solar installer in 2014 after working for cable and mail-delivery service companies. In the past four years, Osh has worked her way up to the position of foreman, leading an all-female installation crew in Las Vegas, Nevada. “This is not just my job,” says Osh. “This is my career.” After Sunrun’s Nevada branch closed in 2015, Osh was relocated to Denver. However, she was always set on rejoining her Las Vegas crew and was rehired in 2017 when the branch reopened. “With Sunrun, there is always room to grow,” she says. Her construction supervisor saw Osh’s potential and encouraged her to become a lead installer, and finally, a foreman. At previous companies, she remained an installer for 7 years. It was only when she moved to Sunrun that she found room to advance in her career.“When I first joined Sunrun in 2014, I thought, ‘Wow, this is such a great company to work for!’ Now, in 2018, I still don’t want to work for anybody else,” says Osh.As a female installer in a predominantly male field, Osh feels supported by both her female and her male colleagues. She says that the other foremen help her understand the ins and outs of the job, supporting her across the board. “No one is trying to stop your growth,” adds Osh.Now, with encouragement from her construction supervisor, Osh plans to return to school to obtain an electrical license that will further bolster her career.(Left to right) Sunrun CEO Lynn Jurich with Osh Thomas, Ka Sundra Smith, 
and Yesenia Gomez.35|2018 IMPACT REPORT Need Hi Res ImagePay
Parity “Fair and equal pay for all genders and races is a fundamental human right and integral to the Sunrun ethos. In the United States today, the workplace inequity that exists is unacceptable. On average, women are paid 80 cents on the dollar compared to men. Taking real action to address the issue is the right thing for our business, our communities, and our society.” LYNN JURICH | SUNRUN CEOSunrun is committed to providing equal and fair pay to all employees. In 2018, we became the first solar company 
to achieve 100% pay parity for our employees, regardless of gender, who perform work in similar locations across the United States.Sunrun is the first national solar company to achieve this goal. We signed the White House Equal Pay Pledge in 2016. As part of that pledge, we conduct an annual company-wide gender pay analysis to identify and address equal pay issues. We also provide equal parental leave for both male and female employees, and we lead the industry in gender diversity at the executive and board levels.In 2016, Sunrun also voluntarily stopped asking candidates nationwide for salary history, more than a year before California enacted AB 168, which made it illegal for an employer to rely on past salary history when making compensation decisions for new hires. “We are building a company that furthers the greater good through environmental stewardship, smart and profitable growth, local community enrichment, and an employment experience that advances the lives of all of our team members. The issue of fair and equal pay is as important to men as it is to women at Sunrun,” said Chris Dawson, Sunrun’s Chief Operating Officer. “This is a continuous journey. Achieving pay parity is not the end game. We will continue to evaluate the fairness of all of our employment practices and to look for ways of remaining at the forefront of corporate America’s efforts to ensure that all people are treated equally. Our values extend to everyone we engage with on our journey to create a planet run by the sun—our employees, our partners, and our customers.”Living Our ValuesDiversity within SunrunGender Diversity within Sunrun100%62%77%73%50%50%50%38%27%23%0%Organizational LeadershipBoard of DirectorsSenior Management TeamWorkforce(Includes all construction jobs)MENWOMENEthnic Diversity within SunrunCaucasian5%5%Asian11%African American39%3%1%Latino/HispanicTwo or more racesNative American, Alaskan Native, Hawaiian Native36%Not specified/Not disclosedAge Diversity within Sunrun12%Less than 30 years of age35%30-50 years of ageMore than 50 years of age53%Living Our ValuesTalent AcquisitionAt Sunrun, we follow targeted diversity recruitment practices and candidate sourcing strategies in an effort to create an internal workforce that mirrors the diversity of our customer base. We are intentional about recruiting a diverse workforce by sourcing a diverse slate of candidates, creating diverse talent pipelines, and attending diversity and inclusion career fairs and workforce development workshops. We have also created a messaging platform that highlights our diversity and inclusion efforts and initiatives in order to attract diverse candidates. To hold ourselves accountable, we have created performance metrics for diversity recruitment, we analyze employee demographic data, and we embed diversity and inclusion into our organizational goals. Military Veterans and Service MembersBy the end of 2018, Sunrun had hired 19 self-identified veterans. This is an increase of nearly 58% from the previous year, attributable to the veteran-specific recruitment measures we have taken. In 2018, we partnered with Direct Employers, a diversity and inclusion recruitment platform, and Empower America, an exclusive veteran hiring partner, and we continued to work with GRID Alternatives Troops for Solar and Sun Shot.Veterans are loyal employees, inspiring leaders, and great team members, which is why Sunrun is pleased to hire them at all levels of the company, including leadership.At Sunrun, eligible active-duty, national guard, and reserve employees receive 10 paid days per year for military duty or leave. This allotment exceeds government requirements, including those specified by the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA). Additionally, Sunrun has established a veteran affairs board, consisting of veterans at or above management level, to oversee veteran affairs in the areas of diversity and inclusion, recruitment, and public policy. “Integrity is one of Sunrun’s 
pivotal values spanning across the entire organization. It permeates how we engage with customers and local communities, to how we find our employees. A workforce that reflects our diverse nation is fundamental to the integrity that we espouse.”LYNN JURICH | SUNRUN CEOPhoto: Lee Rodrigues, a military veteran, has become a solar advocate since joining Sunrun as a senior instructional designer. 38|2018 IMPACT REPORT Living Our ValuesLeft: Women in Tech meeting, Right: Solar industry worker Greg Gebhardt at the Rally to Save South Carolina Solar Jobs in 2018. Employee Network and Affinity GroupsSunrun has created several employee affinity groups to help promote a culture of inclusion and belonging. Every employee at Sunrun is welcome to join.Sunrun Women’s NetworkThe Sunrun Women’s Network facilitates the advancement of women at Sunrun. By sharing information, best practices, education, and experience, members of the network help one another develop leadership skills and pursue career-advancing opportunities that are needed to drive Sunrun’s success. The network is dedicated to helping women discover and use their unique talents to help create a planet run by the sun. It provides women 
with opportunities to attend events, hear guest speakers, and collaborate on projects. LIBERTY: Veterans and Active Military LIBERTY recognizes and supports those who have served. LIBERTY provides veterans, active-duty military, military families, and their supporters with an opportunity to network, collaborate, and make an impact across Sunrun.Women in Tech The Women in Tech group strives to bring people together in order to network, mentor, and recognize the achievements of women in engineering. This group also holds monthly meetings, book club events, and career development workshops.LGBTQ Affinity Group The Sunrun LGBTQ Affinity Group’s purpose is to further and sustain the full equal treatment of Sunrun’s lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender communities by raising awareness internally and externally. The LGBTQ affinity group provides resources, programs, and services that foster inclusion, empower LGBTQ members and their allies, and promote a human-centered safe space that reflects Sunrun’s core values. |2018 IMPACT REPORT Green
TeamAbove: Third annual green team park and river clean up, Below: Office waste diversion initiativeOffice Waste Diversion To help the city of San Francisco achieve the goal of sending zero waste to landfill by 2020, the SF Green Team redesigned the office waste-bin infrastructure. The new system expanded access to compost and recycling bins and removed individual bins from beneath desks in order to lessen unsorted waste. The initiative reduced landfill waste and saved the janitorial staff an additional two hours of work each evening.Choose to ReuseSunrun’s San Francisco office has historically used an average of 50,000 pieces of disposable cutlery each year. To increase the supply of reusable cutlery and provide Sunrun employees with information about the impacts of single-use cutlery, the Green Team purchased sets of reusable cutlery and placed them in the kitchen spaces. This effort reduced single-use cutlery consumption by 40%, producing an annual cost savings of nearly $1,400.Third Annual Green Team Park and River Clean UpThe Denver Green Team ran its third annual park and river clean up in downtown Denver. Twenty-seven Green Team volunteers collected 67 pounds of recyclable materials, 37 pounds of e-waste, 263 pounds of trash, and 50 hypodermic needles for a total of 336 pounds of diverted litter. This event also touched on many facets of sustainability, including health and wellness, community outreach, employee engagement, environmental stewardship, and brand recognition. 