Vendor Integrity and Ethics We require our vendors to act with integrity and adhere to our Vendor Code of Conduct. This Vendor Code of Conduct, along with Sunrun’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, prohibits undisclosed conflicts of interest, money laundering, whistleblower retribution, human trafficking, and involuntary labor. Whistleblower Protection Sunrun is committed to maintaining high standards of financial integrity and takes very seriously all complaints and concerns regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing, and other legal matters, including violations of Sunrun’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Sunrun maintains an Open Door Policy and welcomes feedback and assistance in maintaining our commitment to these policies. Sunrun prohibits retribution or retaliation in any way against any person who has in good faith made a complaint or reported a concern against any person who assists in any investigation. Sunrun also requires that vendors strive to allow their workforces to raise similar concerns without fear of retaliation. 2022 Compensation Governance & Philosophy For 2022, the key elements of our executive compensation program will include the existing components of base salary, annual cash bonus incentive awards, time-based equity awards, and health, welfare, and retirement programs, as well as performance-based equity awards. We believe that providing a portfolio of performance-based equity awards, time-based equity awards, and cash compensation supports the objectives of our long-term incentive compensation program by further aligning the interests of our executive officers and stockholders, balancing performance and retention considerations, and enabling us to use our equity compensation resources more efficiently. We also maintain a “clawback policy” that would allow us to recover certain cash or equity-based incen.tive compensation payments or awards made or granted to certain senior leaders and executive officers in the event of misconduct that results in the need for us to prepare a material financial restatement or material restatement of certain operational results. In 2021, we also adopted stock ownership guidelines for our directors and executive officers, which es.tablish the level of stock ownership that is expected for them to retain.  We adopted these policies based on our belief that stock ownership further aligns the interests of our directors and executives with those of our stockholders. For more information on corporate governance matters, including shareholder rights, Sunrun’s approach to management compensation, and board structure, please see Sunrun’s annual proxy statement, which is filed with the SEC and available on the company’s Investor Relations website at investors.sunrun.com. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 2021 Report The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was established by the Financial Stability Board with the goal of developing voluntary, consistent climate-related financial disclosures that would be useful to all relevant stakeholders. The recommendations of the TCFD are focused on four thematic areas representing core operational pillars, including: (1) governance; (2) strategy; (3) risk management; and (4) metrics and targets. Sunrun believes the TCFD recommendations provide a useful framework to increase transparency on climate-related risks and opportunities within financial markets. I. Governance  Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities. A. Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. As the second largest owner of solar assets in the United States and a top five owner of solar assets globally, Sunrun’s business model is inherently linked to addressing climate change. We embed best practices for ESG performance throughout our organization. In 2019, we tasked a formal committee of senior management to oversee ESG performance and reporting at the company. We also established board level oversight of ESG matters, including the oversight of climate-related opportunities and risks, by our Nominating, Governance, and Sustainability Committee. At least twice a year, the Nominating, Governance, and Sustainability Committee reviews disclosures on progress toward our climate-related initiatives to external stakeholders. ESG risks are also reviewed by our Board’s Audit Committee in connection with the Company’s enterprise risk management process.  The full Board reviews our ESG programs and disclosures at least annually. B. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. We embed best practices for ESG performance throughout our organization. In 2019, we formed the ESG Executive Committee, a formal committee of senior management tasked with driving ESG performance and reporting initiatives throughout the company, overseeing the implementation of our ESG initiatives, and prioritizing internal resources committed to the advancement of our ESG objectives.  Our ESG Executive Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis, and each meeting includes a review of our ESG scorecard for assessing progress made on our goals, as well as a deep dive into various ESG risks.  We also share our ESG goals and priorities with the company’s extended leadership team and encourage leaders to incorporate ESG goals into their objectives and key results (OKRs). Our executive compensation plans are inherently tied to reducing carbon emissions as the amount of solar energy capacity we install is a significant component of our compensation plans. II. Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s business, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material. A. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term. Climate change poses a systemic threat to the global economy and will continue to do so until our society transitions to renewable energy and decarbonizes. While our core business model seeks to accelerate this transition to renewable energy, there are inherent climate-related risks to our business operations. Warming temperatures throughout the United States, and in California, our biggest market, in particular, have contributed to extreme weather, intense drought, and increased wildfire risks. These events have the potential to disrupt our business, our third-party suppliers, and our customers, and may cause us to incur additional operational costs. For instance, natural disasters and extreme weather events associated with climate change can impact our operations by delaying the installation of our systems, leading to increased expenses and decreased revenue and cash flows in the period. They can also cause a decrease in the output from our systems due to smoke or haze. Additionally, if weather patterns significantly shift due to climate change, it may be harder to predict the average annual amount of sunlight striking each location where our solar energy systems are installed. This could make our solar service offerings less economical overall or make individual systems less economical. We aim to reduce the causes of greenhouse gas emissions by transitioning more energy production to clean solar energy and to provide a solution to consumers who would potentially face adverse effects from severe weather caused by climate change. As the nation’s leading home solar, battery storage and energy services company, we believe we are well positioned to accelerate the transition to a lower carbon economy and generate attractive risk-adjusted returns in the current environment as well as over the mid- and long-term time horizons. We have deployed 4,677 megawatts of solar since 2007, but residential solar is still only 4% penetrated in the United States today and the runway for growth remains massive. Residential electricity comprises 21% of power usage in the United States, and electrification of our homes is critical to achieving 100% clean, renewable energy in our energy system. When we blanket all solar available rooftops with panels, we believe residential solar can service almost half of America’s total electricity needs with clean energy. In the future, we expect homes to generate solar power on rooftops, store and manage energy in batteries, heat with electricity rather than fossil fuels, and charge electric vehicles from renewables. We expect people to face a continued increase in power outages from extreme weather caused by climate change. As families experience days without power, year after year, they will seek a clean, reliable and long-term solution. Our battery storage can power through even multi-day outages, offering resiliency and peace of mind. When we network home solar and battery storage to deliver virtual power plants, we further accelerate the transition away from polluting fossil fuels, providing clean, cost effective peaking capacity.  Ultimately, Sunrun seeks to be the energy provider of choice, integrating solar, storage, electrification, and virtual power plants into a smart solution for each home and community. B. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning. We view addressing climate change as a global imperative.  Sunrun was founded and our business strategy has been formed to address climate change head on. We believe that more businesses, consumers and government bodies will seek to address climate change and that Sunrun will be able to benefit from these actions. This increase in consumer awareness of climate change ,coupled with the declining costs of solar modules and batteries in the face of rising utility rates, creates structural advantages for the company to capitalize on climate related opportunities. In the future, we expect homes to generate solar power on rooftops, store and manage energy in batteries, heat with electricity rather than fossil fuels, and charge electric vehicles from renewables. Ultimately, this drives Sunrun to be the energy provider of choice, integrating solar, storage, electrification, and virtual power plants into a smart solution for each home and community. Natural disasters and extreme weather events associated with climate change present risks to our business as well. They can severely impact our operations by delaying the installation of our systems, leading to increased expenses and decreased revenue and cash flows in the period. They can also cause a decrease in the output from our systems due to smoke or haze. Additionally, components of our systems, such as panels and inverters, could be damaged. If weather patterns significantly shift due to climate change, it may be harder to predict the average annual amount of sunlight striking each location where our solar energy systems are installed. This could make our solar service offerings less economical overall or make individual systems less economical. Increasing regulation of fuel emissions can substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. Although we would expect these types of regulations would also increase the cost of energy to end consumers, which increases our value proposition, potentially mitigating or more than offsetting any increased costs in our operations. We prepared our first emissions inventory in 2017 and set our first emissions target in 2020. We continually seek to minimize the impacts of our business operations on climate change including the continued retiring of gasoline vehicles in favor of hybrid and electric vehicles, facility recycling and vendor sustainability. C. Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2oC or lower scenario. TCFD Transitional Scenario 1 Sufficient globally coordinated action is taken to limit the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Assumption Impacts and Strategy Increased demand for our offerings, which we would expect to have Increased demand for solar energy, battery storage, and other home positive economic impacts; however, this could also result in additional electrification solutions. market competition, pricing pressures, supply chain challenges, and lack of available resources and workforce. The adoption of robust decarbonization policies may result in increased Enactment of robust decarbonization policy, such as a price on carbon, demand for our offerings with improved economics for low-carbon results in increased (i) incumbent utility power prices, and (ii) operating products and services; however, this could also result in additional and product costs for certain carbon-intensive industries. market competition, pricing pressures, supply chain challenges, and lack of available resources and workforce. TCFD Transitional Scenario 2 Global action is insufficient to prevent global temperatures from increasing more than 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Assumption Impacts and Strategy If current trends continue, even without a robust decarbonization Lack of laws, regulation, policy or other market conditions significant policy, our offerings may be increasingly competitive in comparison to enough to shift the trajectory of climate change. incumbent utility prices. Certain current policies, such as the net metering policies and the federal investment tax credit, have provided economic benefits to the solar industry and our business; however, if such policies expired or were repealed, our offerings and pricing may become less attractive and future growth may be limited.  Increased demand for our offerings, which we would expect to have Increased demand for solar energy, battery storage, and other home positive economic impacts; however, this could also result in additional electrification solutions. market competition, pricing pressures, supply chain challenges, and lack of available resources and workforce. Increased insurance premiums related to property and systems in Insurance premiums may increase in connection with the impacts of particularly vulnerable regions. global warming, the increase of extreme other events, and the other factors described herein. III. Risk Management Identify how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks. A. Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. Our business model is influenced by climate change through our core mission, to create a planet run by the sun. This mission drives every decision in the business, from the day-to-day senior management decisions to crafting the long term vision and strategy. Among the management processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks and opportunities we have adopted are the: (a) integration of a carbon intensity reduction target, among other climate-related goals, targets, and initiatives, into our sustainability strategy; (b) review and management of climate-related strategy and actions in the context of our short- and long-term business strategy; (c) establishment of internal audit procedures to flag risks to the company, including those related to climate change, and provide structured internal controls that promote compliance in our processes and accuracy in our reporting; (d) formation of an ESG Executive Committee to oversee ESG performance and reporting at the Company and Board level oversight of ESG matters on a regular basis by our Board, Nominating, Governance, and Sustainability Committee, and Audit Committee; and (e) inclusion of climate-change related risks in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. B. Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. The individuals and processes involved with identifying and assessing climate-related risks are also involved in the management of climate-related risks.  In addition, our solar energy systems are subject to environmental forces, including climate-related risks and extreme weather events, such as floods, wildfires, and hurricanes. We seek to mitigate this risk by purchasing property insurance with industry standard coverage and limits approved by an investor’s third-party insurance advisors. We continue to integrate responsible sourcing, environmental protection, and sustainability, including the management of climate-related risks and impacts, into various aspects of our supply chain functions and launched a Vendor Code of Conduct in 2019. We expect all of our vendors to adhere to the policies set forth in our Vendor Code of Conduct. We also rely on third-party manufacturing warranties and warranties provided by our solar partners. We have focused on improving the resiliency of our business operations by implementing cloud-based information technology systems to allow our employees to work from remote locations in the event of weather or other workplace disruptions. C. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. Our leadership team is encouraged, and the governance of our Company is structured, to incorporate ESG matters, including climate-related risks, in its risk management processes. Our Board, and our Board’s Audit Committee and Nominating, Governance, and Sustainability Committee, regularly identify, assess, and manage risk within the company, including those related to climate change. We tasked our ESG Executive Committee with driving ESG performance and reporting initiatives throughout the company, overseeing the implementation of our ESG initiatives, and prioritizing internal resources committed to the advancement of our ESG objectives. In addition, we established internal audit procedures to develop formalized internal controls that promote compliance in our processes and ensure accuracy in our reporting. IV. Metrics and Targets   Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. A. Describe the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. See our goals as provided on page 9 and the section titled Reducing GHG Emissions in this Impact Report. B. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. See the section titled Reducing GHG Emissions in this Impact Report. C. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. See our goals as provided on page 9 and the section titled Reducing GHG Emissions in this Impact Report. Page 66 GHG Accounting Data Sources and Methodology Earlier this year, we expanded our GHG calculation efforts to dive deeper into the impacts of our supply chain partners. We continued to follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology, a well established and comprehensive global framework with which to measure an organization's emissions, and expanded our efforts to calculate our entire GHG footprint. Below we provide the details of what was included in our GHG calculation. Scope 1. These are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. For Sunrun, this includes natural gas consumption used by leased facilities and fuel used by the leased fleet. Scope 2. These emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy. Sunrun’s Scope 2 emissions are primarily from purchased electricity, either directly or through their office leases. Additionally, both market and location-based emissions are reported, as recommended by Scope 2 dual reporting guidance. The location-based method calculates emissions based on electricity consumption of the grid at the location where the energy is used, taking into account the regional fuel mix used to generate the electricity within the locations and time periods of operation. The market-based accounting method enables the application of utility based emissions factors and other energy contract instruments. Per the Protocol, both are reported, and the location-based result is included in the total emissions. Scope 3. These are all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. Sunrun’s Scope 3 emissions include purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and distribution, business travel, capital goods, employee commuting and teleworking, waste generated in operations, end-of-life, processing of sold products, and fuel and energy related activities. Emissions categories excluded from this scope are listed below and were found to be immaterial to Sunrun’s overall footprint. • Use of sold products: Solar panels do not generate emissions during their usage. • Franchises: Sunrun does not have any franchises. Reference Table to Global ReportingInitiative Standards We have used certain Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to help inform what we disclose. The following table is presented to help readers find information that Sunrun has disclosed in reference to GRI’s standards. The following charts provide a cross-reference location guide to our Impact Report, filings with the SEC (including our annual filing on Form 10-K), proxy statements, and other policies the company has posted on its investor relations website, available at investors.sunrun.com. 