POLICYPolicy plays an important role in helping grow and protect the rights of people who benefit from solar. Federal, state, and local governments promote solar energy in the form of rebates, tax credits, and other financial incentives, such as system performance payments, payments for renewable-energy credits, and exclusions of solar-energy systems from property-tax assessments. These incentives enable Sunrun to lower its prices, thereby helping catalyze Americans’ adoption of solar energy.The federal government offers a Residential Investment Tax Credit (ITC) for the installation of certain solar-power equipment owned by residential taxpayers.Thirty-eight states and the District of Columbia have rules protecting the ability of solar consumers to sell excess solar electricity production back to the energy system for use by other energy consumers, a practice known as net metering.FEDERAL INVESTMENT TAX CREDIT SUBSIDYThe ITC gradually steps down over the next 5 years from 30% to 10%, however systems are able 
to receive the credit in effect during the year construction started.2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022+ 30% 30% 30% 26% 22% 10%* *Leased systems only; homeowner purchased system credit sunsets to 0% in 2022POLICY38 STATES AND DC, ALONG WITH TERRITORIES AS, PR, VI AND GU 
HAVE MANDATORY NET METERING RULESState-developed mandatory rules for certain utilities
 (38 states + DC + 3 territories)No statewide mandatory 
rules, but some utilities voluntarily offer net metering 
(2 states)Statewide distributed generation compensation rules other than net metering 
(7 states + 1 territory)Source: DSIRE, www.dsireusa.org (Nov. 2017)NET METERING IS A DURABLE POLICY21.220.817.8NEM Sustained or ExpandedNEM Setbacks
(Ultimately Reversed)10.7NEM Setbacks
(Not Subsequently Reversed)5.63.12.52.310.720142013201620152017Households in State with NEM Policy Action (Millions of Households)Source: EQ Research, analysis of Net Metering Policy decisions or regulartory actions from 2013-1H2017POLICYLEADING THE CHARGESunrun advocates regulation and policies that advance access to solar and the solar industry. These efforts have been integral to some of the most impactful public-affairs campaigns that are accelerating America’s transition to a clean-energy economy and consumer choice. The team carries out short-term and long-term strategies to manage regulatory risks and opportunities. Sunrun makes direct and indirect contributions supporting and opposing candidates for public office and specific ballot measures and engages in direct and grassroots lobbying. Sunrun makes contributions through the company’s political-action committee. In 2017, the PAC contributed to the campaigns of members of Congress from both major parties who demonstrated a commitment to supporting solar-energy deployment. Additionally, Sunrun employees hold various elected committee positions within the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) and collaborate regularly with other industry and advocacy groups such as Vote Solar and the Energy Storage Association.Sunrun actively lobbies the legislatures in all the jurisdictions where Sunrun operates, as well as potential future markets such as Maine, Michigan, North Carolina, and Delaware. The team also engages in lobbying at the federal level. In 2017, the Alliance for Solar Choice (TASC) organized close to 4,000 advocates across the country to contact their legislators more than 28,760 times. Approximately 500 Sunrun employees engaged in policy actions through press conferences, rallies, letter-writing drives, phone calls, and meetings with elected officials.FAIR SOLAR AND STORAGE COMPENSATIONSunrun engages in the development of public policies concerning the monetization of solar-energy generation and storage, including issues such as net metering, time-of-use rates, feed-in tariffs, fixed fees charged by utilities, and priority dispatch for renewable energy. At the state level, our accomplishments and ongoing efforts include the following:•	Sunrun continues to engage in New York’s Reforming the Energy Vision (REV) process and has secured net metering for residential rooftop-solar customers during Phase 1 of the process, which is expected to last through 2019. The team also helped to pass storage-target legislation for New York.•	In Hawaii, Sunrun helped expand and maintain the customer-grid supply tariff. The team also helped create the new smart-export tariff, which enables the passive management of distributed-energy resources and allows solar customers to export extra electricity at a higher rate from 4:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m. In addition, the team successfully held off the mandatory imposition of volt-watt, which could have caused a disproportionate reduction of power generated by some customers.•	In Massachusetts, the team helped initiate an additional incentive for energy storage. POLICY•	In Texas, Missouri, and Utah, Sunrun helped defeat requirements for demand charges on residential rooftop solar. This achievement was critical to preventing a bad precedent for other states. •	In Florida, voters passed legislation known as Senate Bill 90, which included a property-tax exemption on home-solar systems. Nearly every successful solar market in the country has implemented a similar tax policy. •	In California, Sunrun helped promote the passage of legislation to extend the statewide permitting-fee cap and lower the cap from $500 to $450, with an exception to incentivize jurisdictions to streamline processes. The team also helped oppose onerous consumer-protection legislation and helped revise the language to focus on required disclosures to new customers. FINANCING AND TAX STRUCTURE OF SOLAR ENERGYAnother important policy issue is the financing and tax structure of solar energy. Related policies include the federal ITC, property-assessed clean energy, and depreciation schedules. Throughout 2015, Sunrun worked with others in the industry to push for an extension of the solar ITC, leading to a significant deal to extend the ITC for five years and gradually decrease the credit over that period. Sunrun also worked to ensure that the ITC phase-down agreement remained intact in the federal tax-reform legislation of 2017. Sunrun also supported the passage in June 2017 of Florida’s property-tax waiver and helped moderate draconian stipulations targeting solar consumers. These efforts paved the way for Sunrun to enter the state later that month. OTHER POLICY ISSUESELECTRICITY TRANSMISSIONThese issues include regional transmission planning, interconnected transmission networks, interconnection standards, and high-capacity transmission networks. DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM INTERCONNECTIONIn 2017, the team advanced storage interconnection rules in Rhode 
Island, New York, Massachusetts, and Maryland.WHOLESALE-MARKET PARTICIPATIONSunrun is an industry leader in participating in proceedings at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in an effort to advocate for wholesale participation of distributed-energy resources.REPLACEMENTS TO AGING INFRASTRUCTUREIn California, Sunrun supported an effort to double the 2017 budget for the Self-Generation Incentive Program (SGIP) and direct additional funding to home energy-storage projects. The team also facilitated Sunrun’s humanitarian effort to provide fire stations in Puerto Rico with Sunrun solar and battery systems following Hurricane Maria, demonstrating how our products can provide immediate relief during emergencies and leapfrog outdated grid technologies.POLICYNEVADANevada’s experience illustrates the benefits of net metering for households and the overall energy system, as well as the downside of eliminating net metering. Through 2015, the state’s net metering policy had enabled households to take advantage of home-solar options and transformed Las Vegas into one of Sunrun’s largest installation branches.Then in 2016 the Nevada Public Utilities Commission (NPUC) abruptly decided to terminate the net-metering policy. The NPUC justified its decision by referring to a flawed study of data provided by NV Energy. The study highlighted an apparent shift of costs from solar households to others while disregarding the vast majority of benefits that home solar provides to consumers and the entire energy system.The ruling forced half a dozen solar companies to leave Nevada. Sunrun’s Las Vegas branch manager, Larry Cohen, said, “My colleagues excelled so well at what they did, they made the utility scared of us.” He said that January 6, 2016, the day that Sunrun ceased its operations in Nevada, was the worst day of his life: “We had taken a whole generation of kids and given them a career. To lay off coworkers who’d become friends and family made it a day I’ll never forget. It was heartbreaking.”Intense consumer demand and the loss of thousands of solar jobs compelled Nevada’s legislators to restore net metering with a law that passed in a near-unanimous vote in June 2017. The law featured provisions known as the Renewable Energy Bill of Rights, which protect consumers’ choice to generate and store energy using home solar and battery systems. Following the law’s passage, Sunrun quickly re-entered Nevada, giving Larry Cohen the opportunity to rehire many former workers. “People jumped at the opportunity to come back to work in solar,” he said.The lesson from Nevada is clear: consumers are demanding the freedom to choose and access clean energy.“People jumped at the opportunity to come 
back to work in solar.” -LARRY COHEN, 
 BRANCH MANAGERSUNRUN | 2017 IMPACT REPORTCUSTOMER STORIESCUSTOMER STORIESOur customers are integral to our success as an impactful company and a community leader. 
Here are some of their experiences in their own words.Ed CruzEd Cruz, a California doctor, saw the choice to install solar panels with backup battery service as a “no brainer.” “I was thinking of going solar ever since I moved to California,” he explained. “As prices kept dropping, it became more alluring to me.”Because California has a time-of-use rate structure, Ed’s energy costs were extremely high at times when he needed power the most. “It was unbearable to see that bill go up and up,” he said. “We tried to be more energy efficient, but nothing seemed to make much of a dent in our energy consumption.” When Ed’s brother-in-law and friend told him about Sunrun’s Brightbox, he knew it was just what he was looking for. Brightbox, a solar-battery service for the home, offers extra security during outages, cleaner power, and substantial savings. The financial freedom of Brightbox eased the most significant burden for Ed. Over 20 years, he can expect to save $50,000 on electricity. And the security of backup power was more important than he had anticipated.“To me, it seems like a no brainer, especially living in an area where we often see natural disasters. To have that freedom to know that we have power if the grid goes out is very appealing,” he said. Ed likes to be prepared, and he says, “This is just an extension of disaster preparedness.”One aspect of Brightbox that has become more important to Ed as time has gone on is sustainability. “Part of it was that we are trying to live cleaner and make less of an impact on the planet,” he said. The experience of installing solar panels and Brightbox has encouraged Ed to be even more environmentally conscious. He and his wife have chosen to get an electric car, and Ed said the Brightbox system “made that decision a lot easier.”Daniel McIntyreDaniel McIntyre, an accountant who lives south of Boston in Mattapan, is proud that his friends accuse him of “bragging” about his solar panels. “I’ve already recommended Sunrun to a number of guys I work with, and a friend of mine is meeting with Fred, the Sunrun sales associate.”Daniel decided to get home solar for one simple reason: he wanted more independence from the utility company. Now the experience has made him proudly identify as an “environmentalist,” and has sparked his interest in other clean-energy options, like battery storage.“The idea of the process is the scariest part,” said Daniel. He explained that once he started doing research on solar, he was inundated with phone calls from companies trying to win his business. However, his experience with Sunrun was different. Daniel said, “I met Fred a while ago. I made him work very hard. I told him I wanted more efficiency than what was proposed by other companies, and he ultimately made it work for me.”Adam AndersonAdam became interested in solar power during a 2015 humanitarian trip to Haiti. As a disaster relief specialist with a medical not-for-profit, Adam spent most his trip at a local hospital. After the 2010 earthquake disabled the country’s power grid, many residents and businesses were forced to rely on expensive, dirty, unreliable diesel-fuel generators and endure frequent blackouts and intermittent power. But since the local hospital that Adam visited was powered by solar, staff and patients there knew the electricity wouldn’t go out and could count on reliable medical care and facilities.When Adam returned to California, he decided to bring home what he’d learned about solar power. In April 2017, Adam went solar with Sunrun. “It was a super easy process,” he said. “I’m a very detailed-oriented guy. I did my research and decided Sunrun was the best provider because of the production guarantee and hassle-free 20-year service agreement. Once I made the decision, it was incredibly efficient, so much so that I’m trying to figure out how this customer model can apply to my company.”Adam powers both his home and his electric car with Sunrun’s solar panels. He drives 100 miles a day to and from his work in Santa Barbara, and he feels good knowing he is both saving money and limiting his environmental impact. “I’m not polluting or buying gas, and my electricity bills went from $200 per month to $1,” said Adam.In addition to the financial savings and clean lifestyle, residential solar has the potential to be a literal lifesaver for Adam and his family. They live in Ojai, a mountain community about 50 miles south of Santa Barbara. For several months in 2017, the area experienced unprecedented wildfires and mudslides, which cut off power and left people stranded during emergency situations. “I live in one of the wealthiest regions in America, and our power supply is incredibly vulnerable, delivered through just one line. Energy storage is the last missing link, in my mind,” said Adam. “A solar-powered home battery would give me the peace of mind that, when disaster strikes, I have backup power for my family.”