Corporate GovernanceSunrun is committed to achieving and maintaining a best-in-class corporate governance structure. The company expects 
all its employees to act according to the highest standards of honesty and ethical conduct. We strictly comply with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and all applicable laws and regulations in the countries and regions where we do business. Sunrun creates value for customers and builds relationships based on trust by dealing fairly with customers, suppliers, government agencies, competitors, and employees. We also promote accountability internally by holding regular staff meetings and sharing financial performance and company updates with employees.Sunrun maintains a strong open door policy, a confidential employee hotline administered by an independent company, and an employee relations team in our human resources function that is dedicated to thoroughly and fairly investigating all employee complaints.41Corporate GovernanceBoard of DirectorsThe Board of Directors makes recommendations and conducts unbiased evaluation and supervision of management activities. It maintains an independent majority at all times and comprises eight members, all but two of whom are independent. Steve Vassallo serves as Lead Independent Director and is responsible for overseeing separate meetings of the independent directors. Our co-founder Edward Fenster has served as Chairman since March 2014. The Board has three female members, including our CEO Lynn Jurich.The Board has three committees. The Audit Committee assists the board in ensuring we uphold the highest standards of financial integrity through accounting transparency and conformance. The Compensation Committee seeks to align executive compensation with shareholders’ interests and corporate goals. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees the evaluation of the Board and assists in recommending new members and developing and maintaining corporate governance policies. Vendor Integrity and EthicsWe require our vendors to act with integrity and to adhere to our Vendor Code of Conduct. This Vendor Code of Conduct, along with Sunrun’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, prohibits undisclosed conflicts of interest, money laundering, and whistleblower retribution. Whistleblower ProtectionSunrun is committed to maintaining high standards of financial integrity and takes very seriously all complaints and concerns regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing, and other legal matters, including violations of Sunrun’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Sunrun prohibits retribution or retaliation in any way against any person who has in good faith made a complaint or reported a concern or against any person who assists in any investigation. Sunrun also requires that vendors strive to allow their workforces to raise similar concerns without fear of retaliation. For more information on corporate governance matters, including shareholder rights, Sunrun’s approach to management compensation, and board structure, please see Sunrun’s annual proxy statement, which is filed with the SEC and available on the company’s Investor Relations website at investors.sunrun.com