STRATEGIC AND PHILANTHROPIC PARTNERSHIPSSunrun cannot fulfill its mission to deliver a clean-energy future by acting alone. We believe that strong partnerships help us make the largest possible impact, bring leading solutions to more customers, and accelerate the transition to a clean, resilient, and affordable energy system. By joining forces with electric utilities, grid-services companies, not-for-profit organizations, and community-investment groups, we are creating a ecosystem of innovation and opportunity.National GridGlobal utility and energy company In 2017, Sunrun announced a strategic partnership with National Grid, a leading global utility company with operations in the United States and the United Kingdom. As part of the partnership, National Grid works with Sunrun to explore how home-energy resources might be aggregated and used to balance and optimize the energy grid across the United States. The partnership also includes a $100 million project-equity investment for solar-energy systems and a joint marketing pilot in downstate New York. PARTNERSHIP AT 
A GLANCE•	Strategic collaboration 
on grid-service opportunities, leveraging home-energy resources to provide increased value to the energy system•	$100 million project-equity investment for solar-energy systems•	Joint marketing pilot in New York29SUNRUN | 2017 IMPACT REPORTPARTNERSHIPSComcastBroadcasting and telecommunications companyIn August 2017, Sunrun and Comcast signed a 40-month agreement that is designed to accelerate the adoption of solar energy by Comcast’s vast customer base. Comcast will market services and generate leads for Sunrun. By offering residential solar, Comcast can create an even more dynamic way for customers to retain control over their power needs.The agreement came on the heels of a successful one-year solar-pilot program in which participating Comcast customers chose Sunrun’s solar service. The pilot program and the early stages of the partnership have highlighted the value to Comcast of offering customers Sunrun’s solar-energy service.GRID AlternativesNot-for-profit solar providerSunrun has partnered with GRID Alternatives, a national leader in making solar power and jobs accessible to underserved communities, for more than six years. The partnership includes a philanthropic donation to support job training and solar-energy systems for low-income families, as well as employee volunteerism on projects across the United States.Sunrun finances solar projects through a unique third-party-owner (TPO) model developed by GRID for its low-income clients. Sunrun serves as TPO through its solar leases and solar power-purchase agreements (PPAs). Under this arrangement, Sunrun owns, operates, maintains, and insures the systems, while GRID installs and funds each customer’s prepaid 20-year solar PPA or lease bill. The TPO model allows Sunrun to leverage both the federal investment tax credit and depreciation benefits on these projects, while reducing costs for GRID and helping the organization serve more low-income households. In addition, Sunrun employees have volunteered over 4,200 hours through this partnership to date, installing more than 2,000 kilowatts of single-family, multi-family, and community solar projects. These installations prevent more than 38,000 metric tons of CO2e, which is equivalent to the emissions prevented by planting nearly 900,000 trees.PARTNERSHIP AT 
A GLANCE•	Forty-month deal to offer solar to Comcast customers through Comcast’s Xfinity Home Service•	Sunrun is Comcast’s exclusive residential solar providerPARTNERSHIP AT 
A GLANCE•	Partnership renewed every year for six years•	Sunrun employees have volunteered over 4,200 hours through this partnership to date•	Together, we have installed more than 2,000 kilowatts on single-family, multi-family, and community solar projectsPARTNERSHIPSEmpowered by LightNot-for-profit solar providerTwo months after Hurricane Maria pummeled Puerto Rico, more than 60% of the island’s residents were without power. Much of the island’s critical infrastructure had to rely on diesel generators in the absence of grid electricity. But most of those generators weren’t designed to run on a continuous basis, and many failed as a result.Sunrun and Empowered by Light installed solar on fire stations in Puerto Rico as part of a continuing effort to provide emergency relief to residents. Aireko employees, many of whom had no electricity since Hurricane Maria, have been working alongside Sunrun on the installations.In addition to providing immediate support to a portion of the island’s critical infrastructure, Sunrun and Empowered by Light hope their efforts, now in partnership with Aireko, will encourage rebuilding efforts to include renewable-energy technologies. The plan to install solar systems on an additional five fire stations, after the initial three, was made possible in part by funding from the Kresge Foundation as well as donations from hundreds of individuals.The most recently installed system, a 6.6-kilowatt solar and storage installation, was placed on the roof of the Metro fire station in the neighborhood of Puerta de Tierra. This system will power the station’s communications and call center, enabling the firefighters to respond effectively to emergency calls.PARTNERSHIP AT 
A GLANCE•	Empowered by Light was Sunrun’s partner on the ground in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria•	We worked together to install solar panels and batteries on fire stations•	These projects helped keep critical emergency centers powered up and ready to respondPARTNERSHIPSOur mission for the last decade has been to provide affordable, clean, and resilient energy to all Americans. After Hurricane Maria reduced Puerto Rico’s power grid to rubble, Sunrun heard stories about emergency-relief crews who couldn’t respond to our fellow U.S. citizens because they couldn’t recharge their radios. We were also confronted with images of our fellow citizens having to drink contaminated water because municipal water systems lacked electricity to power their pumps. Those stories and images made it clear that we could do something to help.Almost immediately, Sunrun joined forced with firefighters and not-for-profit organizations like Empowered by Light, the GivePower Foundation, and Zero Mass Water to bring 15,000 pounds of solar, battery-storage, and water-purification equipment to the island. Our employees, equipment, and expertise went first where it was most needed: three fire stations that could help rescue many of the most isolated Puerto Ricans in rural communities around the island. Those fire stations now have the technology to power their critical systems at all times. The solar and battery systems have operated without interruption since installation, in spite of multiple blackouts, enabling firefighters to support and bring critical relief to their communities during emergencies. We have also committed to install equipment at five more fire stations by June 2018.Sunrun also partnered with the Solar Foundation, the Clinton Foundation, major humanitarian organizations, and solar-energy companies across the country to mount an industry-wide relief effort to restore electricity in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. That effort, Solar Saves Lives, is organizing donations of solar and storage technologies to power critical infrastructure in disaster-affected regions. These donations are being made to fulfill specific needs on the ground as assessed by local officials and relief organizations.BY THE NUMBERS15,000
pounds of solar equipment initially brought to the island25,000
pounds of solar equipment committed by Sunrun with Solar Saves Lives to power food and medical centers8
fire stations to be 
outfitted with solar and battery systems$40,000
donated by Sunrun 
employees and corporate matching to Puerto Rico relief efforts through 
Direct ReliefSUNRUN | 2017 IMPACT REPORTPARTNERSHIPSMore than 20 companies joined Sunrun in the launch of this program and have already provided $5 million in solar equipment ranging from lanterns and cellphone chargers to solar refrigeration and water-purification units. Companies also donated the equipment for large-scale solar systems. Sunrun itself pledged approximately 25,000 pounds of solar equipment to power food markets and medical centers across Puerto Rico.To provide Sunrun employees with a way to contribute, the company set up a donation fund with the goal of raising $20,000 for Direct Relief, an organization that provides immediate relief to the victims of natural disasters around the world. Donations from employees and matching corporate gifts amounted to more than double the $20,000 goal. SUNRUN | 2017 IMPACT REPORTPARTNERSHIPSGRID ALTERNATIVESGRID Alternatives is a not-for-profit solar installer that works throughout the United States to bring solar electricity to low-income families and provide valuable job training to their communities. To date, GRID has installed more than 9,000 systems and provided job-training opportunities to more than 34,000 people.In partnership with GRID, Sunrun installed 1,200 solar-energy systems in 2017. More than 100 Sunrun employees participated in these installations, logging 836 hours on 12 single-family projects as well as the 1.95-megawatt Poudre Valley Rural Electric Association community-solar project in Fort Collins, Colorado. All told, these 13 projects provided 2.03 megawatts of solar to people who might not have otherwise had the opportunity to go solar. What gives us even more pride is the beneficial economic effects that our 12 single-family installations will have on local communities. Our partnership with GRID goes beyond solar systems. At meet-and-greet sessions for GRID trainees in our Colorado and San Diego offices, Sunrun recruiters talked about our company and the jobs we might have for GRID trainees upon completion of their training. In addition, one of our construction managers was a panelist at a Los Angeles session called Solar Jobs and Second Chances.Members of our team also participated in the Inland Empire’s Solar Employer Survey, a research study done by GRID in partnership with the California Community College Desert Region District with a goal of better understanding the industry’s hiring needs, opportunities, and challenges in the Inland Empire.Sunrun share its job openings with GRID so it can match trainees with our positions. We have received direct referrals from GRID offices as a result. Through our partnership with GRID to date, we have hired at least seven GRID trainees in our Bay Area, Los Angeles, Riverside, and North Valley regions. We are also working with GRID to help them develop training programs that prepare their trainees for our job openings.BY THE NUMBERS3,075,188
lifetime kilowatt-hours produced by solar projects installed by GRID and Sunrun volunteers$642,259
estimated value of energy generated by these systems over their lifetimes—all provided directly to the involved families2,055
tons of carbon emissions prevented (equivalent of planting over 47,800 trees)7
number of GRID trainees hired by Sunrun through our partnership