ENVIRONMENTAt Sunrun, we hold ourselves accountable for minimizing GHG emissions and sharing in the responsibility to address the challenges presented by climate change and environmental pollution. That is why we decided in 2017 to conduct a comprehensive estimate of our carbon footprint and assess the broader environmental impacts of our business. Where are we making a significant impact in carbon emissions reductions? In what areas are we able to improve? In 2017, Sunrun deployed more than 323 megawatts of solar to more than 44,000 customers. These installations could generate approximately 
12 billion kilowatt-hours 
of clean energy during the next 30 years—enough to prevent the emission of nearly 10 million metric tons of CO2e.MEASURING OUR GREENHOUSE-GAS EMISSIONSIn 2017, Sunrun deployed more than 323 megawatts of solar to more than 44,000 customers. These installations could generate approximately 12 billion kilowatt-hours of clean energy during the next 30 years—enough to prevent the emission of nearly 10 million metric tons of CO2e, based on estimates from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Generating electricity close to the households where it is used also prevents GHG emissions and other adverse environmental impacts resulting from the production of electricity that is lost during long-distance transmission  and distribution.To prepare Sunrun’s first GHG emissions inventory and environmental impact study, we followed widely adopted GHG accounting protocols and impact-measurement frameworks. The calculations reported herein estimate the GHG emissions attributable to Sunrun’s company-owned and -operated vehicle fleet, leased offices and warehouses, modules and balance-of-system (BOS) components, equipment-lifecycle considerations, and the activities that our partners and suppliers perform in support of our operations. (Please refer to the Appendix for more details on our calculations and the assumptions behind them.)ENVIRONMENTEMISSION 
TYPESScope 1 
Emissions Company-operated vehicle fleet and on-site natural 
gas consumption for Sunrun and our partnersScope 2 
Emissions Purchased electricity for leased offices and warehouses for Sunrun 
and our partnersScope 3 
EmissionsSolar module 
manufacturing, balance of system (BOS) components, and supply chainVehicle-fleet emissions were estimated based on data collected and verified through our fleet-management service, with emissions calculated according to vehicle types, fuel types, and miles driven within the reporting period. Emissions from our leased offices and warehouses were estimated by applying the average energy-usage values reported in the U.S. Energy Information Administration’s 2012 Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey to Sunrun’s occupied office and warehouse square footage.To account for emissions associated with the activities of our channel partners, we applied emissions factors derived from Sunrun-operated deployments across various eGRID regions over the reporting period to partner operations. Calculations of emissions produced as a consequence of manufacturing photovoltaic modules for Sunrun’s installations draw on industry-published figures that correspond to the average wattage of modules that Sunrun deployed over the reporting period. These cover emissions from raw-material extraction; wafer, cell, and module production; the supply chain of semiconductors; and the supply chain of carrier and connection materials such as glass and silver. An additional emissions factor of 20% was then applied to account for emissions produced as a consequence of manufacturing BOS components, such as inverters, racking systems, wiring, and other interconnection equipment, for Sunrun’s installations.2016 EMISSIONS TYPE OF EMISSIONS EMISSIONS(THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS OF CO2e) Direct Emissions (Scope 1) + Purchased Electricity (Scope 2)  37 Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3) 198 Total Emissions from Operations  235 2017 EMISSIONS TYPE OF EMISSIONS EMISSIONS(THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS OF CO2e) Direct Emissions (Scope 1) + Purchased Electricity (Scope 2)  49 Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3) 227 Total Emissions from Operations  275 ENVIRONMENTMost companies produce more emissions than they negate, while Sunrun negates significantly more emissions than 
we produce.POSITIVE CARBON RETURNSDuring the course of their lifetimes, the solar-energy systems deployed by Sunrun in 2017 are projected to generate approximately 12 billion kilowatt-hours of clean solar energy, preventing nearly 10 million metric tons of CO2e from entering the atmosphere. This quantity is 30 times greater than the the quantity of CO2e emitted by the manufacturing and deployment of these systems. Most companies produce more emissions than they negate, while Sunrun negates significantly more emissions than we produce. LENGTH OF TIME FOR POSITIVE CARBON 
RETURNS TO BE REALIZEDOnce Sunrun’s solar systems begin to operate, the positive carbon returns accrue rapidly. This is an important metric to emphasize, because it is sometimes said that manufacturing and installing solar modules and BOS components requires the use of fossil fuels and thereby generates more GHG emissions than the installed solar-energy systems prevent. In our analysis, we found that positive carbon returns are not only realized, but also realized in an extremely short period of time.EMISSIONS CONSIDERED CARBON PAYBACK PERIOD(YEARS) POSTITIVE CARBON RETURN (YEARS) Emission from Operations + Supply Chain + End of Use 0.9 29.10 In just 10 months of operating, a Sunrun solar-energy system has prevented the same amount of GHGs that were emitted to build and install the system. Sunrun’s systems are expected to produce clean energy for 30 years. This means that for 97% of the lifetime of our systems, they prevent the release of harmful GHGs into the atmosphere.Sunrun’s cumulative deployed systems of 1,202 MEGAWATTS are estimated 
to offset more than 34 MILLION METRIC TONS OF CO2e EMISSIONS 
during their 30-year lifetimesFor each metric ton of CO2e emitted by Sunrun in 2017, the clean solar 
systems that Sunrun deployed in 2017 are expected to avoid more than 
30 METRIC TONS OF CO2e EMISSIONS during their 30-year lifetimesFor each metric ton of CO2e emitted by Sunrun in 2017, our entire fleet of 
solar-energy systems has already prevented more than 3 METRIC TONS 
OF CO2e FROM ENTERING THE ATMOSPHEREENVIRONMENTCOMPARISON TO FOSSIL-FUEL ELECTRICITY GENERATIONA major benefit of solar-electricity generation is that it produces less GHG emissions per kilowatt-hour of energy compared to electricity generation using fossil fuels such as oil, coal, and natural gas. When comparing the environmental impacts of various energy sources, it is important to consider the entire lifecycle of any given technology. In these calculations and those described above, we have made an effort to include all environmental impacts from our operations, upstream supply-chain impacts, and the end use of our solar-energy systems.Impact studies conducted by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) conclude that “cradle to grave” lifecycle GHG emissions from renewable electricity sources, including photovoltaics, are much lower and generally more consistent than the lifecycle emissions from fossil-fuel electricity.113,14 Electricity generated by burning coal or natural gas, for example, releases significantly more GHGs per kilowatt-hour than solar electricity.GENERATION SOURCE CO2 EMISSIONS (g / kWh) Sunrun System 22 Coal 979 Natural Gas 470 For 97% of the lifetime of our systems, they prevent the release of harmful GHGs into the atmosphere.PRESERVING AIR AND WATERBy enabling consumers to lessen their consumption of electricity generated using fossil fuels, Sunrun’s solar-energy systems prevent many other adverse environmental impacts. These impacts include emissions of noxious air pollutants and consumption of increasingly scarce fresh water reserves required for traditional electricity generation. The harmful health impacts and environmental pollution from fossil-fuel power plants are well documented. The environmental impact of coal and natural-gas plants has been linked to serious health problems including difficulty breathing, neurological damage, and cancer.15 Many of these health problems can be traced to nitrous oxide and sulfur oxide compounds released during the combustion of fossil fuels.16,17, While everyone experiences the effects of pollution, low-income families and communities of 
color in the United States often suffer a disproportionately large share of adverse effects.18 According to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, approximately 68% of African Americans live within 30 miles of a coal-fired power plant,19 and a report by Clean Air Task Force found that close to 2 million Latinos live within half a mile of existing energy infrastructure.20 As a result of their proximity to pollution, these communities face elevated health risks: an African American21 or Hispanic child22 is twice as likely to die from an asthma attack as a non-Hispanic white child. ENVIRONMENTThe public-health effects of coal alone are estimated at $74.6 billion per year.23 Solar energy offers a simple and abundant means of reducing the quantity of nitrous oxides, sulfur oxides, and ozone emitted by the combustion of fossil fuels. The electricity produced by Sunrun systems deployed in 2017 effects a meaningful reduction of these harmful compounds by lowering households’ consumption of fossil-fuel electricity.AIR AND WATER IMPACTS2016 2017 CUMULATIVE Nitrogen Oxide 
(Avoided Metric Tons) 569,000 793,000 1,362,000 Ozone 
(Avoided Metric Tons)  620 860 1,480 Sulfur Dioxide 
(Avoided Metric Tons) 1,390 1,940 3,330 Water Consumption(Avoided Millions of Gallons) 17 24 41 Fossil-fuel electricity generation threatens increasingly scarce freshwater supplies. Production of electrical power is one of the largest uses of water in the United States, with 161 billion gallons of water used per day in 2011,24 and accounting for 49% of all water withdrawals in 2005.25 Renewable-energy technologies like solar play a key role in reducing the strain on water resources.Consider that the national weighted average of water use by thermoelectric and hydroelectric plants is two gallons of evaporated water per kilowatt-hour of electricity consumed at the point of end use.26 Solar-energy systems deployed by Sunrun in 2017 will generate approximately 12 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity during their lifetime, thereby preventing the consumption of 24 billion gallons of water that would otherwise be used to generate fossil-fuel electricity.REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINTFACILITIESSunrun is committed to building a framework of sustainable policies and practices for our company’s built environment to promote conservation of natural resources, reduction of GHG emissions, and improved employee comfort and well-being. With 47 office locations across 18 states, we have concentrated on diverting recyclables from our waste stream and standardizing design specifications for our offices. More than 70% of our locations have traditional recycling as well as pallet and e-waste recycling. Additionally, Sunrun is developing nationwide design specifications including coatings that are low in volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and carpeting and hard-surface flooring made with post-consumer recycled content. More than 80% of our locations have implemented the low-VOC paint standard and more than 60% now have carpet that is considered carbon neutral through lifecycle assessments (LCAs).ENVIRONMENTSunrun also uses benchmarking systems to foster transparency and efficiency. By transitioning the entire Sunrun real-estate portfolio to the EnergyStar Portfolio Manager, we intend to set targets for energy reduction. Auditing energy use, waste generation, and water consumption 
will allow Sunrun to identify opportunities for reducing environmental impacts and achieving 
cost savings.Our goal for 2018 is to set uniform departmental standards. Benchmarking and securing national contracts for building services will improve service quality as well as the reliability of building systems. Establishing national contracts for solid-waste and electronic-waste management, integrated pest management (IPM), green cleaning, and HVAC preventive maintenance, will create a uniform building environment and scope of services while reducing costs.To properly manage resources, we will develop a thorough understanding of current resource usage. Throughout 2018, systems will be audited to inform the development of detailed targets and reporting dashboards for resource use and GHG emissions reduction. The facilities department will work with other departments to set and attain these targets.VEHICLE FLEETSunrun’s fleet of more than 1,000 vehicles enables the installation of solar systems at households across the country. The average fuel economy of our fleet vehicles exceeds 20 miles per gallon, and more than a quarter of our fleet vehicles average over 30 miles per gallon. This year, Sunrun introduced a new driver’s policy to promote slower, safer, and more efficient driving. This policy is designed to increase the average fuel economy of our fleet vehicles and thereby reduce GHG emissions. In addition, Sunrun plans to purchase newer fleet vehicles this year and retire the 
oldest ones.As Sunrun enters new markets across the United States, local managers are gaining experience with their market geographies and have begun providing fleet drivers with incentives to optimize their routes and driving patterns. 