2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACTSunrun’s six employee resource groups foster 
a culture of inclusion and belonging.The groups include Sunrun Women’s Network, Blacks & Allies, Latinx & Allies, Asians & Allies, LGBTQ & Allies, and Veterans & Allies.Sunrun Women’s Network Celebrating International Women’s Day and 
Women’s History Month in March is important at Sunrun. For the 2019 International Women’s Day theme, #balanceforbetter, our female executives provided excellent insights into being a working mother with a demanding job. They encouraged everyone to accept career challenges while constantly recommitting to their values, both personal and professional.Blacks & Allies Initiatives For the first time, Sunrun participated in the National Black MBA Conference and Career Fair, gathering 10,000 undergraduates and graduates each year seeking opportunities in sales, corporate functions and operations. In partnership with Blacks & Allies and Sunrun’s Talent Acquisition team, this helped us hire top diverse talent. Latinx & Allies Initiatives This Spring, Sunrun became a supporter of the DIY Invent Girls program, furthering our mission to make solar more inclusive and inspiring young girls to go into STEM careers in the clean energy industry.Asians & Allies Initiatives To celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, Sunrun partnered with Catalyst to provide a webinar featuring talent from Asian Pacific descent. Klinton Miyao, our Vice President of Legal, and inspiring speakers from other industries shared how they dealt with bias and achieved success.LGBTQ+ & Allies Initiatives To commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall uprising, the Sunrun LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group organized a panel discussion with members of the LGBTQ+ community and allies who shared their experiences. The focus was on creating safe spaces where everyone brings their full potential to work and shares their full self.Veterans & Allies Initiatives Sunrun participates in a variety of programs to recruit and retain US veterans, including a veteran referral program, military base job fair partnership development, veteran workforce programs and apprenticeship programs. In addition to participation in the Veteran Employee Resource group, Veterans & Allies, eligible active-duty National Guard and reserve employees receive 10 paid days per year for military duty or leave. 2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACTPAY PARITY AT SUNRUN“Equal pay is about fair compensation for work performance and improving the quality of life for employees and their families,” said Jeanna Steele, Sunrun General Counsel and appointed member of the California Pay Equity Task Force.At Sunrun, we believe achieving pay parity is a significant step toward gender equality in the workplace. Sunrun became the first national solar company to achieve this milestone after committing to The White House Equal Pay Pledge in 2016 under the Obama Administration. In 2018, Sunrun achieved 100% pay parity for its employees, regardless of gender, who perform similar work in similar locations across the United States.Sunrun achieved its pay parity goal by committing to key principles:•	Completing a comprehensive annual review of compensation practices across the business with the help of an outside 
law firm.•	Voluntarily adopting a policy prohibiting inquiries into 
a candidate’s salary history.•	Providing equal paid parental leave for both male and 
female employees.On April 1, 2019, Sunrun took the California Equal Pay Pledge developed 
as part of the partnership between the California Commission on the Status of Women and Girls and the Office of California First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom. Sunrun’s commitment ensures that all employees are fairly compensated and this creates a more inclusive and equitable work environment for everyone.2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACTWELLNESS AND BALANCESunrun also offers all full-time employees an array of comprehensive wellness benefits to improve employee health and wellbeing. We keep these benefits cost-effective for employees, regularly leading our industry peers in the quality and the cost of benefit plans. These benefits include:•	Health webinars •	Maven maternity and paternity program for new parents with 24/7 maternity concierge services, on-demand digital clinics, and online community forums •	Tobacco cessation programs •	Blood drives •	Weight Watchers memberships•	Company-wide wellness challenges •	Stress relief services •	On-site flu shots and wellness checks at facilities with large workforces •	Telemedicine services for fast assistance with general health and behavioral health needs •	An employee discount program, which includes fitness center discounts •	Employee assistance program •	Mental health counseling•	Tuition reimbursement2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACTDiversity within SunrunFIGURE 15 
Gender Diversity within Sunrun100%57%70%50%75%50%50%43%30%25%0%Board of DirectorsOrganizational LeadershipSenior Management TeamWorkforce(Includes all construction jobs)FIGURE 16 
Ethnic Diversity within SunrunCaucasian6%7%Asian15%African AmericanLatino/Hispanic3%46%2%Two or more racesNative American, Alaskan Native, Hawaiian Native21%Not specified/Not disclosedFIGURE 17
Age Diversity within Sunrun15%Less than 30 years of age31%30-50 years of ageMore than 50 years of age54%2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACTSunrun CEO Lynn Jurich was number 10 on Comparably’s list of Best CEOs, and the only woman recognized in their top 15. This serves as a reminder that as a country we have much more work to do to increase representation. In addition to the Comparably award, Lynn recently received a Women Worth Watching Award by Profiles in Diversity Journal, recognizing her efforts to advance diversity and inclusion. Past recipients include Mary Barra, CEO 
of General Motors, Lynne Doughtie, CEO of KPMG, 
and Marillyn Hewson, CEO of Lockheed Martin.2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACT2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACT2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACT2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACT2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACT2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACTCASE STUDY CompensationNet Energy Metering: In 2014, South Carolina passed Act 236, which legalized net energy metering (NEM) and third-party-owned solar, but also put an arbitrary cap on how much would be allowed. Those caps were rapidly approaching in 2019. Without policies in place that encourages households to put solar panels on their rooftops, home solar would wither in the state.To prevent this, Sunrun played a critical role in a coalition of key stakeholders, such as solar industry advocates, environmental groups, and other solar companies, to fight for market-saving legislation. This led to the introduction of the Energy Freedom Act, which eliminates the NEM cap and encourages low-cost, competitive options for clean energy in the state—like home solar sold by companies such as Sunrun. It also protects thousands of solar employees who would have otherwise lost their jobs, as no more solar could be installed once the NEM cap was hit. This year, the Energy Freedom Act was unanimously passed in South Carolina, a state with a Republican-led legislature, and signed by the Republican Governor.This was a huge milestone, not only by making sure that NEM was protected, but also by empowering customers to continue taking control of their energy production. Some ratepayers were stuck paying an average of $27 a month on their energy bills for two nuclear reactors that never produced any electricity. Rooftop solar can provide an alternative for many people looking to control their power bills. 2019 IMPACT REPORT  |  SOCIETAL IMPACTCASE STUDY Virtual 
Power PlantConnectedSolutions: In Massachusetts, Sunrun successfully worked with policymakers and the state’s largest investor-owned utility, National Grid, to build out a Bring-Your-Own-Device (BYOD) program titled “ConnectedSolutions” in which ratepayers reduce stress on the electrical grid during times of high energy demand in the region. This is done by harnessing the collective energy from home energy assets like batteries powered by clean solar energy. Sunrun then provides the power from this network to utilities as a type of “Virtual Power Plant.” We push energy from the solar-powered batteries during times when energy is expensive and in high demand, reducing the need to power up fossil-fueled peaker plants to meet this demand. Homeowners are compensated for providing power to the grid, while grid operators don’t need to run expensive, large scale infrastructure. This lowers costs for all electricity users and everyone financially benefits from this program, which also reduces the need for dirty, expensive fossil fuel plants to deliver energy.After piloting this program with Sunrun and others, National Grid and the other utilities in Massachusetts made these programs available statewide. This means that home solar batteries will reduce costs and pollution for the entire Commonwealth and shows the pioneering partnerships that Sunrun is forging. Solar for All: Illinois Solar for All is a state program launched in 2019 that creates pathways for low-income communities to engage in the clean energy economy. With Illinois Solar for All, participants can get home solar for $0 down, and monthly costs and fees will not be higher than 50% of the value of the energy generated from that system. There is also a job training component, with training programs and job fairs to ensure that disadvantaged populations also reap the benefits of clean energy job creation. In the works since 2014, Sunrun has been integral to the development and implementation of this program. Several Sunrun project managers working with the Solar For All program are helping families from their own communities gain access to solar energy where it has been traditionally underrepresented.