SolarEdge is an organization that cares deeply about the world in which we live. We are driven by the principle that continuous improvement in the ways in which we produce and consume energy will lead to a better, more sustainable future. To achieve this, we focus on constant technology innovation, engineering excellence and efficient production to create holistic solutions, which combine renewable energy production with smart energy consumption for every aspect of energy usage. We aim to reduce the global carbon footprint, without slowing down technology evolution or jeopardizing our standard of living. The core value of sustainability impacts every aspect of our business, from product development and manufacturing, to our business partnerships throughout the entire supply chain. SolarEdge has rapidly gained international recognition, has had a steady increase in annual revenue since sales began in 2010 and has become the world’s number one PV inverter supplier in revenues*. Our strong financial performance has yielded 18 consecutive quarters with profit and positive cash flow generation. SolarEdge cares deeply about creating a more sustainable and ethical business environment for the communities in which we are active, and the Company adheres to strict standards of corporate social responsibility. Through a constant quest for innovation, operational excellence, profitability, and responsible growth, we believe we can help the world reduce dependence on polluting and depleting fossil fuels and create sustainable solar power generation that will lead us towards a brighter future. It is our hope that our children and grandchildren will look back with pride on what we have achieved and how we have influenced the reduction of our carbon footprint in order to help mitigate global warming. Guy Sella, CEO and Chairman, Founder * Source: IHS revenues and shipments, MS Q3, 2018 Introduction to SolarEdge About Us SolarEdge is a global leader in smart energy technology. Established in 2006, SolarEdge developed the DC optimized inverter solution that transformed the way power is harvested and managed in photovoltaic (PV) systems. Designed to accelerate the pace of PV proliferation, the SolarEdge DC optimized inverter maximizes power generation while lowering the cost of energy produced by the PV system. The SolarEdge DC optimized system consists of inverters, power optimizers, and a monitoring system. Overcoming the limitations of traditional PV inverters, SolarEdge’s PV system offers increased energy production, design flexibility, enhanced safety, and improved operations and maintenance. SolarEdge addresses a broad range of energy market segments through its PV, storage, EV charging, batteries, UPS, and grid services solutions and is leading the energy transition from large centralized power stations to an interconnected network of distributed energy networks based on smart solar energy systems. According to IHS revenue and shipment MS (Q3 2018), SolarEdge is ranked as the top PV inverter supplier in the world for revenue, and the top single-phase PV inverter supplier in the world. World PV Inverter Supplier World Single Phase Inverter Supplier Quarterly Rankings ($ Revenues) Market Share Estimates (MW Shipments) As of December 31, 2018, SolarEdge shipped approximately 34.1 million of its power optimizers, and 1.4 million of its inverters. To date, more than one million installations, many of which include multiple inverters, are currently connected and monitored through our monitoring platform. As of December 31 2018, approximately 10.6GW of our DC optimized inverter systems have been shipped worldwide, and our products are installed in solar PV systems on more than 130 countries. Geographic business activity is decided strategically based on each region’s solar market evolution, electricity prices, grid parity status, irradiance, and government policies that support the economic viability of PV. SolarEdge was founded with the goal of overcoming the traditional limitations of solar energy, and to make it more accessible and attractive to more people around the world. Since its founding, SolarEdge has become a leading smart energy technology company. The Company’s goal is to lead the world’s energy transition by creating a smart energy ecosystem that encompasses both grid and building energy management. The following is a chronology of some of our key milestones: August 2006 2010 2013 March 2015 September 2015 January 2016 February 2016 June 2016 SolarEdge is established Initiated product sales One millionth power optimizer shipped and increased U.S. sales personnel Introduced third-generation power optimizer, based on third-generation ASIC and with a power rating of up to 700 watts and improved heat dissipation capabilities for high reliability and lower cost Completed initial public offering (IPO) and began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker SEDG Unveiled HD-Wave inverter technology, which introduced a novel approach to inverter design that significantly decreases inverter size and weight and achieves record efficiency Announced the international availability of our StorEdge™ solution Shipped our ten millionth power optimizer Received the Intersolar Award in the Photovoltaics category for HD-Wave technology inverter and began shipments Previewed new S-Series power optimizer, an Intersolar Award Finalist in May 2017 the Photovoltaics category July 2018 July 2018 October 2018 January 2019 Launched the world’s first EV charging solar inverter which charges up to six times faster than a standard Level 1 charger through its innovative solar boost mode that simultaneously utilizes grid and PV charging Entered the field of Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) by acquiring the assets of Gamatronic Electronic Industries, a technology leader in the field Acquired Kokam Co. Ltd, a South Korean provider of lithium-ion cells, batteries, and energy storage solutions Entered the e-mobility market with acquisition of a majority stake of S.M.R.E. Spa, a provider of innovative integrated powertrain technology and electronics for electric vehicles Our revenues were $490 million, $607 million, and $937.2 million for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. SolarEdge has been profitable for 18 consecutive quarters. Gross margins were 32.8 %, 35.4%, and 34.1%, for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Net profits were $63.5 million, $84.2 million, and $128.8 million for 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. SolarEdge believes that there is still ample market growth opportunity as DC optimized inverter technology continues to prove itself as a worthy market contender. With the goal of driving additional revenue, SolarEdge will continue to invest in sales and marketing in order to acquire customers in existing markets while further penetrating new market sectors, such as the large commercial PV and utility segments and smart energy ecosystems, including Virtual Power Plants and EVs. As part of its growth strategy, SolarEdge will continue investing in R&D with the goal of enhancing its product offerings, and develop new, cost-effective solutions. This business strategy aims to sustain an efficient operating model with relatively low expenses. Concurrently, SolarEdge intends to invest in its three newly acquired businesses in order to accelerate product development. All of these efforts directly support SolarEdge’s vision of contributing to the sustainable development of green energy by driving continuous improvement in the ways we produce and consume energy. By developing smart energy solutions that offer value and drive down the cost of solar and storage, solar energy becomes more accessible and affordable around the world. Through leading innovation, SolarEdge aims to contribute towards the goal set by several global nations of achieving an uninterrupted, affordable supply of sustainable energy. Compliance with international standards on quality and control, ethical conduct, and environmental protection, is a major driver in our product strategy and corporate governance. Global Distribution With local teams of sales, service, marketing and training experts, SolarEdge has a presence in more than 26 countries, and PV systems installed in 133 countries. Having a large distribution network, SolarEdge has had systems installed by more than 20,000 installers around the world. The Company has a global manufacturing footprint with tier 1 electronic manufacturing service companies and a “follow-the-sun” call center network across several regions. Established Global Reach Illustrates SolarEdge presence Illustrates SolarEdge installed systems Markets SolarEdge has established a leading position in the global residential solar market. Within the residential sector, SolarEdge has expanded its footprint in markets such as the U.S., Europe, Australia, and Asia. Over the past few years, SolarEdge has entered the commercial and industrial markets, and has recently entered the utility-scale solar market. Concurrently, SolarEdge has introduced new products into these markets which use the inverter as the brain of the smart energy system within the home. The inverter's role has expanded from simply managing the system, to controlling appliances within the home itself, as well as interacting between the grid and behind-the-meter functionalities. The Company has also made initial forays into the virtual power plant business. 1. 7 Global PV Market Forecast (GW) 42.837.931.1 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018E 2019E 2020E 2021E 2022E Source: IHS, PV installations tracker - Q4 -2018 Inverter Installations by Installation Type (GW) Global PV Installations by system type 2016  2017  2018E  2019E  2020E  2021E  2022E  Residential  Commercial  Utility  Source : IHS, PV installations tracker – Q4-2018  New Horizons Innovation has, and will continue to be one of the Company’s primary growth drivers. As the Company diversifies into new markets and regions, SolarEdge also expects its recent acquisitions (listed below) to drive sustainable growth in adjacent markets: Acquisition of Gamatronic assets, the newly established Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) division, will allow us to leverage developed technologies and core competencies in order to enter the global UPS business. The acquisition of Kokam, a provider of Lithium-ion battery cells, batteries, and energy storage solutions for a wide variety of industries including Energy Storage Systems, UPS, electric vehicles, aerospace, marine, and more. With governments around the world promoting the transition to electric vehicles (EVs), and automotive original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) gearing up for their accelerated adoption, the recent acquisition of a majority share of S.M.R.E positively positions SolarEdge to enter the e-mobility market. Environment Affordable and Clean Energy Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all Why Is this important? As the global population increases and the average individual energy use grows, universal access to affordable, reliable energy is paramount for the sustainable development of all nations. Energy is also a large contributor of greenhouse gas emissions, and the substantial future growth of cheap energy needs to come from renewable resources in order to mitigate the impact on climate. Contributing to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals SolarEdge products and operations contribute towards the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development by focusing on eight of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Company’s strategic plan focuses on several key areas, including providing clean and affordable energy, climate change solutions, responsible production, and resource consumption, as well as, sustainable cities and communities. The success of the Company’s various efforts ensures the continued contribution towards the 2030 sustainable development targets. By collaborating with its supply chain partners, employees, and customers, SolarEdge is well positioned to provide sustainable energy for future generations. What are the Sustainable Development Goals? In September 2015, the Member States of the United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals agenda. The 17 goals, including the 169 targets that are included to support the goals, form a new sustainable development agenda intended to protect the planet, end poverty, and ensure prosperity for all. Sustainable Growth SolarEdge’s solutions directly address the UN SDGs of providing affordable, clean energy. SolarEdge’s inverters with HD-Wave technology are designed with fewer raw materials than previous inverter generations. This means less stress on natural resources per inverter produced. These inverters have a higher weighted efficiency, which means more clean energy generated over the system lifetime. Taken in combination with the systems overall higher energy generation, this means an even lower levelized cost of energy (LCOE). This contributes to making solar energy more accessible and attractive to more people. Sustainability at SolarEdge encompasses a wide-variety of factors, including innovation, technological solutions, customers, and markets. Delivering environmentally friendly solutions to customers and the sustainable development strategy supporting this goal has resulted in significant market share growth every year since the Company’s sales initiation. Focus on innovation is the core driver of sustainable growth at SolarEdge. A considerable amount of investment in R&D focuses on decreasing the amount of components in each product in order to reduce both cost and the stress on depleting natural resources. In addition, this reduces shipping-derived carbon emissions. With a strong pipeline of products and patents, innovation for new customer segments and new markets is another key focus of our R&D team. At a manufacturing level, SolarEdge’s products are manufactured by contract manufacturers who meet high ESG (environmental, social and governance) criteria. Based on the BlueSky model, we estimate the cumulative sustainability impact of SolarEdge’s systems has been significant - with more than 10.6 GW of optimized inverter systems shipped worldwide, powering an equivalent of more than 1.9 million homes, and reducing approximately 9 million metric tons of carbon emissions. Environmental Impact Source: blueskymodel.org, SEIA While SolarEdge’s core power optimization technology was the original catalyst for the Company’s rapid growth, innovations around new inverter architecture (such as HD-Wave technology which represents one of the most significant leaps in solar technology in the past 20 years), have been, and are expected to continue to be, a substantial driver of growth in the coming years. In 2017, intending to increase its market share in the PV commercial market segment, SolarEdge unveiled large capacity three phase inverters that combine increased capacity with ease of installation, resulting in reduced installation time and cost. Reduced Emissions Footprint from SolarEdge Systems 10.6 GW of SolarEdge shipped systems is equivalent to the following reduction of emission footprint: 