Responsible Resource Management Life Cycle Management As an industry leader in technologies that promotes environmentally friendly solutions for energy generation, we try to limit the harmful effects of our life cycle as much as possible. We strive to improve the quality and efficiency of our products through stringent quality testing and compliance with international standards on recycling, waste and pollution, restrictions on hazardous substances, and human health. Raw Materials Manufacturing Recycling Product in Service SolarEdge is committed to working with suppliers and partners that follow responsible and ethical business practices. We are compliant with the European Union Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive, which restricts the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. We also ensure that we are compliant with REACH (European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals) protocols adopted to improve the protection of human rights and the environment. We strive to ensure that materials used in our products come from socially and environmentally responsible sources. We build our products for lasting performance, which means that they do not require frequent replacements, thus reducing waste. We aim to reduce our life cycle impact by ensuring that we are compliant with the international standards on recycling, waste and pollution. We participate in the “Take Back” program as outlined by the European Union (EU) Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive in Germany, Italy and The Netherlands. Along with our own operations, we are also committed to ensuring that our partners and employees reduce wastefulness by encouraging them to report any loss or damage to the products, instances of theft, or intentional damage as soon as possible. Any materials directly or indirectly contributing to any conflict are not acceptable. We do not tolerate, nor by any means profit from, contribute to, assist with, or facilitate any activity that fuels conflict, leads to serious environmental degradation, or violates human rights. Supply Chain Management SolarEdge is committed to only working with suppliers and partners that follow responsible and ethical business practices. We require that our suppliers and partners not violate any international regulations in accordance with the UN Global Compact initiative on the following major issues: (i) International human rights; (ii) Forced, compulsory, or child labor; (iii) Discrimination in the workplace; (iv) Environmental protection; (v) Anti- corruption practices. We expect our suppliers to define and communicate to sub-suppliers their own policy, outlining their Responsible Consumption and Production commitment to responsible sourcing, and ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns of these materials, legal compliance, and measures for implementation. SolarEdge also requires suppliers to maintain traceability data for five years and requires that they be produced upon request. To identify risks in the supply chain, SolarEdge solicits data on the material composition of all of its products to identify suppliers who might use any of the above-mentioned materials. We also periodically conduct supply chain due diligence with the help of a third-party consultant where we engage our supplier through a survey. We work with our suppliers to help them implement improvements to their supply chain, and failure to comply with our principles and standards can lead to termination of the business relationship. Supplier Qualification and Assessment The SolarEdge supplier approval process is initiated at the request of R&D, engineering, or purchasing teams. A potential new component vendor must submit documentation defined by SolarEdge quality teams, and a preliminary evaluation visit or survey at the component manufacturer’s site by a SolarEdge expert is required as part of the approval process. Component manufacturers must submit a certificate of Quality Management System based on ISO 9000 standard and all other valid certificates such as ISO 14000 and OSHAS 18000 are required. SolarEdge quality engineers verify the submitted documents. Following a thorough assessment, a SolarEdge Quality Director or Quality Engineer approves or disapproves the submitted documents. The final approval for a new vendor is given by engineering, purchasing, R&D, and quality representatives after a thorough due diligence review is conducted. SolarEdge Q&R department has the responsibility to define all the quality and reliability requirements from the manufacturers/vendors/suppliers for SolarEdge parts/items. A number of tests, including Material Chemical Analysis, are conducted as part of the quality management process. We also have strict documentation requirements for SolarEdge shipped items. Every shipment to SolarEdge or its contract manufacturers requires a signed certificate of compliance relating to RoHS and REACH. For materials, we require a signed certificate of testing and measurement. We also require our manufacturers/vendors/ suppliers to update us of any change impacts related to material, methods, machine, manufacturing, or human resources approximately three months in advance. Conflict Minerals Our primary suppliers are required to sign the SolarEdge Code of Conduct, which binds them to conduct business in accordance with predefined principles. These principles include requiring suppliers who manufacture components, parts, or products containing tin, tantalum, tungsten, and/or gold to commit to sourcing those materials from environmentally and socially responsible sources only, and in compliance with SEC ruling and OECD guidance. Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires companies using gold, tin, tungsten, and tantalum make efforts to determine if those materials came from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) or an adjoining country and, if so, to carry out a “due diligence” review of their supply chain to determine whether their mineral purchases are funding armed groups in eastern DRC. We adhere to these SEC guidelines across our supply chain. The illegal extraction and trade of natural resources, and associated human rights violations, conflict, and environmental degradation, are matters of growing international concern. We are committed to respecting human rights and the environment in accordance with accepted international conventions and practices, such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Core Conventions on Labor Standards, UN Global Compact, and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. We strive to ensure that all materials used in our products come from socially and environmentally responsible sources. We do not tolerate, nor by any means profit from, contribute to, assist with, or facilitate any activity that fuels conflict, leads to serious environmental degradation, or violates human rights, as set forth by the above-mentioned international conventions and SolarEdge policies. View the SolarEdge Policy on Conflict Minerals. Read the latest SolarEdge Conflict Minerals Report. Facilities Monitoring Committed to minimizing consumption of natural resources, we remain focused on maximizing energy performance across our facilities. As an integral part of our clean energy initiatives, we are minimizing our carbon footprint through onsite renewable energy production that supplements our green energy purchases from local utilities. Less Energy Invested per Inverter at Manufacturing Assembly Stage2 Electricity consumption (kWh) per kW of inverter manufactured (assembly stage) 0.66 2017 2018 Source: Based on electricity consumption data from contract manufacturer facilities We focus on responsibly managing our water usage by implementing best practices for water use minimization and recycling throughout our global supply chain partners, wherever feasible. For example, due to the developed centralized sewage and water system in Israel, all sewage water in our main offices and facilities is treated in water treatment plants and re-used for irrigation in agriculture. This is possible because no hazardous substances are added to the offices’ sewage systems, and the hazardous waste from the labs is separated, treated, and disposed of properly, in accordance with the law. .Assumes 10% electricity savings from SolarEdge inverter, 1200 kWh/kW of solar irradiance Environmental, Safety & Quality Compliance Standards and Certifications  We look to improve the efficiency of our products and the quality of our offerings by complying with stringent international standards on quality management. We strive to go beyond the basic level of regulatory compliance, and encourage our partners and suppliers to do the same. ISO 9001 and 90003 We adhere to ISO 9001, an international set of standards on quality management. By adhering to the standard, SolarEdge offers products and services that meet both customer, and regulatory requirements with consistency and reliability. ISO 90003 is a quality management standard adopted by SolarEdge, which outlines the requirements and guidelines for software products and related services. Environmental Protection We strive to improve the quality and efficiency of our products through stringent quality testing and compliance with international standards on recycling, waste and pollution, restrictions on hazardous substances, and human health. SolarEdge proudly complies with the following international standards and directives. ISO 14001 ISO 14001 provides organizations with a framework for an effective environmental management system (EMS). Our products are certified for compliance with ISO 14001 requirements. OHSAS 18001 We conform to OHSAS 1800:2007 Occupational Health and Safety Management Certification, an international standard that provides a framework to identify, control and decrease the risks associated with health and safety within the workplace. WEEE The European Union (EU) Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive requires manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment to support the “Take Back” program by financing the reuse or recycling of products released in the EU market after August 13, 2005. All of SolarEdge’s relevant products display the wheel bin symbol in accordance with WEEE requirements. Read the European Commission’s WEEE directive: http://ec.europa.eu/ environment/ waste/weee/index_en.htm RoHS We are fully compliant with the European Union Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive, which restricts the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. We continuously update company procedures in accordance with the strictest environmental regulations. View the European Commission’s RoHS directive: http:// ec.europa.eu/environment/waste/ rohs_eee/index_en.htm REACH REACH (European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals) was introduced on June 1, 2007 in order to improve the protection of human health and the environment. When it comes to dealing with potential risks posed by hazardous chemicals, the directive places the onus on the Company, as opposed to a third-party regulator. REACH promotes greater communication and cooperation between all companies in the supply chain. Read the European Commission’s REACH directive: https://ec.europa.eu/ growth/sectors/ chemicals/reach/ 