Product Development and Innovation Climate Action Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Why is this important? The production and use of electricity contributes to climate change, negatively impacting people and communities. According to the IPCC Climate Report 2018, it is estimated that limiting global temperature increase to less than 2°C by 2030 may help to mitigate the impacts of climate change How is SolarEdge contributing? Our PV systems enable customers to generate more power over the lifetime of the system, which in turn translates into lower carbon footprint for the customer. Our products have a smaller environmental footprint since they consume fewer raw materials, and our manufacturing partners also possess strict policies on climate change and water conservation. We are minimizing our carbon footprint through onsite renewable energy production that supplements our polluting energy purchases from local utilities. SolarEdge has drawn on its expertise in the fields of power electronics, electrical design, Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) design, mechanical and heat dissipation capabilities, control loops and algorithms, and power line communications to design and develop one of the most advanced commercially available solutions for harvesting power from PV systems. SolarEdge’s DC string connection facilitates straightforward connection to compatible batteries on the DC side of the inverter. This enables installers to add storage capabilities to an existing solar system using a single inverter operating in either self-consumption or backup modes. The expanded product offering, including solar inverters with built-in capacity for storage and electric vehicle charging, allows increased self-consumption, energy independence, and improved return on system investment. The acquisition of Gamatronic was the Company’s first step in expanding its business into new fields outside and complimentary to the solar arena. The multi-billion dollar UPS market is expected to undergo significant changes in the coming years, and combining SolarEdge’s innovation, operational excellence, and business leadership with Gamatronic’s technology and extensive experience in this field will propel UPS market leadership. By adding proven battery storage capability to SolarEdge’s product portfolio, the acquisition of Kokam will enable SolarEdge to grow its offering and become a one-stop shop for solar and storage solutions. SolarEdge’s technological innovation combined with Kokam’s world-class team and renowned battery storage solutions will enable seamless integration with the Company’s current solutions. This combination will advance SolarEdge’s goal of making solar installations smarter and more beneficial. Power Optimizers Each new ASIC generation in our next generation of power optimizers reduces the number of components required, and meaningfully improves the efficiency of the power optimizer. The efficiency improvement reduces the energy losses, which in turn reduces the amount of heat dissipation. This enables design of a more cost-effective and usually smaller enclosure, and also keeps the electronics cooler, thereby improving the power optimizer’s reliability. Less components Improved efficiency Proprietary ASICs Every new generation uses Results in lower heat less components dissipation, smaller enclosure Less Components The inception of SolarEdge was based on the understanding that each module needs to be optimized independently from its peers. The Company’s founders identified that the standard technology created obstacles that prevented the proliferation of solar energy. By developing power optimizers, SolarEdge changed the way power is harvested, managed, and monitored in PV systems. The power optimizer maximizes power generation while lowering the cost of energy produced by the PV system, for improved return on investment. Leveraging proprietary power electronics, the SolarEdge power optimizer is a DC/DC converter that is connected to each solar module, turning them into smart modules. Designed and developed for robustness, power optimizers are able to operate in harsh outdoor environments at high efficiencies. SolarEdge power optimizers are verified for consistent performance and reliability in numerous lab tests and simulations. Digital control algorithms and a closed-loop mechanism are key factors in the performance of the power optimizer. The power optimizer’s control is built into the Company’s advanced ASIC, which is responsible for all critical digital control functions, including detailed power analysis, digital control of the power conversion sub-system, and power line communications and networking. Since each power optimizer handles the power and voltage of a single module, SolarEdge reaches a high degree of semiconductor integration by leveraging low cost silicon in standard semiconductor packages. As a result, much of the functionality of the power optimizer can be integrated into a standard ASIC instead of discrete electronic components, resulting in lower costs and higher reliability. Inverters    The combination of the SolarEdge inverter and power optimizers allows the control loop to maintain a fixed DC voltage level at its input, thereby allowing for longer, uneven, and multi.faceted strings, while also enabling custom, cost–efficient, and reliable inverter design and component selection. This enables the installation of larger PV systems, and the installation of PV systems at locations that were previously not considered to be solar compatible. All of the power components, as well as the main magnetic components for SolarEdge inverters, are optimized for DC/AC high-efficiency inversion. The inverter digital control algorithms are implemented using programmable digital signal processors that allow for flexibility and adaptation of control loops for various grids, and for the requirements and standards of various grid operators across geographic regions. SolarEdge has already implemented the control mechanisms necessary to support advanced grid codes and standards that are required to support high penetration of solar energy into the grid. HD-Wave technology inverters provide environmental benefits throughout the entire PV value chain. The technology allows higher efficiency which leads to less heat dissipation. The technology also reduces the amount of aluminum and copper used. Furthermore, the inverter also requires less magnetics and hence uses less ferrite. All of the above lowers the amount of rare and extracted materials used which dramatically influences the environmental footprint. Being a smaller, lighter inverter, less raw material is needed for manufacturing and the lighter weight decreases transportation costs. Additionally, the reduction in material results in less waste at the end of life. All of these factors will contribute to a smaller CO2 footprint for the inverter and also reduces dependency on diminishing resources. With significant saving potential and a faster evolutionary path that can accelerate the rate towards grid parity, HD-Wave technology inverters will promote faster and wider global PV proliferation. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Why is this important? Today’s utility infrastructure uses thermal generation which is centralized and inefficient. Our products are key enablers of the future development of de-carbonized, decentralized and digital power infrastructure.. How is SolarEdge contributing? We are developing next generation inverters, power optimizers and storage products for distributed utility infrastructure Through innovation, we are constantly improving performance of our products and have a greater environmental impact on customer systems. More efficiency means less energy waste, a bigger green energy harvest and reduction of carbon emission. Residential Solution Power Optimizer    Connects to each solar module enabling them to perform at maximum capability    Provides greater energy production, enhanced safety, and constant feedback from each Smart Energy    Utilize excess solar energy to power heat pumps, to heat water, or to power lights and other home appliances Single phase    Automatic, on-the-go control of smart Three phase devices via SolarEdge’s monitoring platform Smart Energy    The brains of the PV system Relay Hot WaterSmart Energy     Efficiently converts DC energy to AC electricity for use in the home    Manages system production, battery power, EV charging, and smart energy Smart Energy Socket Monitoring Platform    View real-time system and module performance, and receive StorEdge® notifications on mobile devices   Stores PV energy in batteries for use    Visibility of energy production and when needed consumption, battery charge level,   Provides backup power for the home and EV charge status during grid outages   Compatible with LG Chem RESU 7H/10H batteries MONITORING PLATFORM  Full visibility of system performance Commercial System  Remote troubleshooting Access via browser or any Android, iOS smart phone or tablet capacity models  Easy, step-by-step inverter activation and commissioning with the SetApp mobile application Built-in communication hardware, with optional GSM plug-in  Integrated DC Safety Switch Embedded export limitation PV Asset Management with Module Level Monitoring SOLAREDGE DATA LOGGER Connection of environmental sensors with several wireless communication options, providing monitoring and control ENVIRONMENTALSENSORS Used to calculate site performance ratio and measure environmental conditions GRID INTERACTION Supports power control, e.g. zero export limitation, local and remote active/reactive power control, inverter AC relay control for secondary grid protection; low voltage and frequency ride through. The SolarEdge DC optimized inverter solution offers advanced PV monitoring and asset management. Power optimizers constantly track maximum power point and report high-resolution data on module performance. The SolarEdge monitoring platform transforms O&M from a manual, resource-intensive process, to an automated, at-a-glance service, ensuring that every array is performing to the best of its ability at all times. Traditional inverters offer limited information, such as string-level or system-level monitoring, that can indicate underperformance of the array. It then becomes costly and time consuming to send skilled technicians to perform onsite troubleshooting. For a typical commercial system, O&M cost savings can account for up to 10% of total costs over the course of 25-year system life. Positive Environmental Impact from O&M 7,500 Kg cumulative environmental impact from O&M savings 10% Greater environmental Impact from O&M savings Source: National Renewable Energy Laboratory Leaves Bird droppings Snow Shading Soiling (current & future) Inverters typically account for less than 10% of the system cost, but manage 100% of system production, and control O&M expenses through PV asset management solutions. Therefore, inverter selection is critical for the long-term financial and environmental performance of a PV system as it can maximize energy production and reduce lifetime costs as well as maximize lifetime environmental impact. Traditional inverter architecture suffers from significant inefficiencies leading to sub.optimal power generation and environmental outcome for the system owner. These challenges include: Module mismatch. When PV modules are wired in series in traditional inverter architecture, the entire string’s output can be reduced, sometimes correlated directly to the output of the lowest-performing PV module on the string. Output reduction can result from subtle variations in PV module composition, atmospheric conditions, soiling, individual PV module locations and orientations, or varying levels of PV module degradation over time. Partial shading. Many real-world factors can cause a subset of the PV modules in a system to be partially shaded, which can significantly affect the power output of the entire string. For instance, electric wires, a chimney, or even adjacent solar modules may cast a shadow during particular hours of the day, or debris may accumulate. This partial shading reduces the yield of a traditional solar PV system by decreasing, or in extreme cases eliminating, power output from the shaded modules. Dynamic maximum power point tracking. The MPP of a PV module shifts constantly throughout the day because of atmospheric conditions. A traditional inverter system’s inability to coordinate output on a module-by.module basis makes it difficult for the system to respond dynamically to the shifting MPP. Traditional Systems Inherent Problems Module mismatch No module level monitoring Partial shading Limited roof utilization Dynamic MPPT loss Safety hazards SolarEdge addresses system drawbacks of traditional inverters by offering technology that allows for greater rooftop usage and higher energy output resulting in reduced O&M costs. With our solutions, customers can minimize their environmental footprint by increasing the solar generation over the lifetime of the system as well as maximizing the per square foot and per dollar invested solar production. Additional features such as a battery for storage of energy generated, and a smart energy home automation system enable greater savings for the system owner. We also recently announced the first inverter-integrated electric vehicle (EV) charger. The key sustainability advantages of our solution include:     Monitoring and control    Increased power harvesting Optimized architecture Lower BoS costs Maximized PV module power output. Our power optimizers provide module-level MPP tracking and real-time adjustments of current and voltage to the optimal working point of each individual PV module. This enables each PV module to continuously produce its maximum power potential independent of other modules in the same string, thus minimizing module mismatch and partial shading losses. By performing these adjustments at a very high rate, our power optimizers also solve the dynamic MPP losses associated with traditional inverters. Optimized architecture with economies of scale. Our system shifts certain functions of the traditional inverter to our power optimizers while keeping the DC to AC function and grid interaction in our inverter. As a result, our inverter is smaller, more efficient and expected to be more reliable than inverters used in traditional PV systems. The cost savings that we have achieved on the inverter enable our system to be priced at a cost per watt that is competitive with traditional inverter systems of leading manufacturers. As a PV system grows in size, our inverter benefits from economies of scale, making our technology viable for large commercial and utility-scale applications. The optimized architecture enabled by our system results in significant net environmental benefits over the entire system life. 