Looking back over 2021 and the recent months, the subject of “energy” has dominated the headlines. Whether it’s energy uncertainty due to global conflict, rising energy prices threatening economic growth, or bold energy legislation to reduce the impact of climate change, it has clearly become one of the key factors that will shape our future.  Electricity continues to play a greater role in our day to day lives. Everything from home heating to individual mobility is becoming increasingly electrified. Global electricity consumption is expected to increase by nearly 50% by 2050 compared to 20201. One of the most efficient, cost-effective and sustainable ways to meet this demand is with PV systems. Experts estimate that the solar energy share of the global installed electricity capacity mix is likely to increase from 11% in 2019 to 38% in 2050,2 which would make it the largest renewable energy source used worldwide. Homeowners, business leaders and governments understand that an investment in solar is not only economically advantageous, but also contributes to a more sustainable future. By the end of 2021, over 2.27 million homes around the world were equipped with SolarEdge PV systems, and more than 30% of Fortune 100 companies are using our systems on at least one of their rooftops. Overall, the carbon-free energy generated globally by our DC optimized PV inverter solutions is enabling the avoidance of an estimated 23 million metric tons of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions each year. These avoided emissions are equivalent to taking 5 million gasoline-powered cars off the road permanently. Furthermore, we are delivering improved residential and community solutions as well as more robust systems for businesses and larger enterprise users. These innovative new solutions will enhance our contribution to the global low-carbon economy transition.  As a company dedicated to helping build a sustainable future, SolarEdge has made progress toward our 2025 sustainability targets. For example, when comparing 2021 with the previous year, we have reduced our own greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 7% and have improved our safety incident rate by 19%. We have made strides in sustainable procurement, auditing the responsible practices of our major contract manufacturers, 
and implementing a supplier code of conduct for growing parts of our 
supply chain. In terms of gender equality, there are now over 120 women among our dedicated managers, and we have established targets and plans to increase the percentage of women employees, women managers and women in 
R&D roles.Our work is not without challenges. Like many other global manufacturing companies, we have experienced disruptions in material supplies, logistics constraints and persisting COVID-19 related difficulties. These challenges, coupled with the increasing demand for our products, have required us to apply creative approaches and solutions to enable continuity of supply in increasing volumes. Our sustainability strategy – powering the future of energy – guides us to conduct our business responsibly, ethically, inclusively, and efficiently. We are set to continue this path to deliver on our sustainability commitments, and I invite you to read more about our ongoing progress in the following pages of this report.  Thank you for your interest. Zvi LandoChief Executive Officer 1.	 International Energy Outlook 2021, U.S. Energy Information Administration, October 6, 2021, https://www.eia.gov/outlooks/ieo/introduction/sub-topic-01.php2.	New Energy Outlook 2020 by Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BloombergNEF) https://about.bnef.com/new-energy-outlook-2020/About SolarEdge ABOUTSOLAREDGECompany ProfileCompany Profile / 04Corporate Governance / 06SolarEdge is a global leader in high-performance smart energy technology. By leveraging world-class engineering capabilities and with a relentless focus on innovation, we create smart energy products and solutions that power our lives and drive future progress.SolarEdge was founded in 2006 by five visionaries who saw the possibility to revolutionize the way power is harvested from the sun.  One of our earliest innovations was an intelligent optimized inverter solution that transformed the solar industry and has led to SolarEdge becoming the number one inverter company (by revenues) for 4 years consecutively1. Our social purpose: To power the future of energy so we can all enjoy better, more energy-efficient lifestyles and a greener, sustainable future.Our employees:4,000 employees (approx.) at year end 2021  

1,100 employees (approx.) 
in our research and development organization at year end 2021  Our social mission:Shaping the future of sustainable energy production, energy storage and e-Mobility through technological innovation.Our products and services: SolarEdge addresses a broad range of energy market segments through PV, energy storage, EV charging, batteries, electrical vehicles and grid services solutions. The SolarEdge DC-coupled architecture maximizes PV power generation, solar energy storage and self-consumption, hence lowering the overall cost of energy produced by PV systems.Our solutions and global distribution support the worldwide transition from centralized, fossil fuel-based energy to clean, distributed and renewable power generation and consumption.Our core values:Customer Success. Innovation. 
Humility. Excellence. 1.	  Based on revenues. Source: IHS PV Inverter Market tracker, Second Quarter 2022About SolarEdgeAbout SolarEdgeCompany ProfileOur reach at the end of 2021: 
#1 solar Inverter company, revenue wise 
133 countries with SolarEdge installations in 5 continents
83.9 million Power Optimizers shipped, cumulative
3.5 million inverters shipped, cumulative
29.5 GW (approx.) of our systems shipped worldwide (since 2010)
>2.45 million solar energy installations around the world 
monitored by SolarEdge systems>790 thousand inverters produced in 202118.6 million Power Optimizers produced in 2021405 awarded patents and approximately397 patent applications filed worldwide Our financials1: 
$1.964 billion revenues in 2021 (GAAP)$220 million spending on research and development in 2021Our stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, 
where stock prices are quoted under the symbol “SEDG”.1.	GAAP basis. For additional information, please see our financial report for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2022, filed on Form 10-Q.  https://investors.solaredge.com/static-files/7a2bd807-49ed-4773-80f3-2b2c2ac94814About SolarEdgeAbout SolarEdgeCorporate GovernanceAs a publicly traded company (Nasdaq: SEDG), SolarEdge maintains a robust corporate governance structure. Our governance aims to ensure due process for executing our responsibility to our shareholders and to all those we serve through our business, upholding ethical conduct, effective risk management, strategy execution and integrity of corporate infrastructure. The Board is elected by SolarEdge stockholders. In 2021, the Board met seven times, with each Director attending 100% of these meetings.As of June 1, 2022, our Board of Directors consists of seven members, led by Nadav Zafrir, who joined the Board in 2019 as an independent Chair and Director. “I have always believed in the power of business to drive positive change. SolarEdge is well positioned to help transform markets and make clean energy a reality everywhere, both for built structures and mobility, supporting global efforts to mitigate climate change. I am thrilled to offer my experience to help the team at SolarEdge realize the full potential of solar energy for a better future for all of us.” Dirk Hoke, SolarEdge DirectorAudit Committee Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Responsibilities include, among others: Oversight of SolarEdge’s financial reporting, risk assessment and risk management
 Oversight of the adequacy of our internal controls  Responsibilities include, among others: Developing and recommending criteria for identifying and evaluating Director candidates
  Identifying individuals qualified to become Directors, consistent with criteria approved by our Board of Directors 
 Oversight of and making recommendations to the Board regarding sustainability matters Compensation Committee Technology Committee Responsibilities include, among others: Oversight of overall executive compensation philosophy, policies,
and programs  Oversight of strategies and policies related to human capital as well as diversity and inclusion Responsibilities include, among others: Oversight of technology related strategies, processes,
and programs
 Reviewing benefits, risks and potential risk mitigation measures associated with proposed technology advancement programs Reviewing actions and risks associated with any current shortfalls in product performance, quality, or reliability and manufacturing methods including any product security Oversight of cyber security, including incident analysis and risk identification and mitigation Oversight of information systems design and performance In 2021, the Board received quarterly updates from SolarEdge management on ESG matters and engaged to support decisions across a range of issues. These included (among others) our newly introduced ESG-related compensation metrics and goals 
(see section: Sustainability Governance).The Board also reviewed and approved the company’s revised Insider Trading Policy.  Specifically, our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee holds responsibility for oversight of sustainability matters. In 2021, we welcomed Betsy Atkins to our Board of Directors. Ms. Atkins serves as Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Ms. Atkins is a seasoned businesswoman and entrepreneur and a renowned thought leader in the area of corporate governance and ESG, frequently publishing articles on these topics.SolarEdge Board of Directors7Directors
(including the Chair)6 Independent directors
(86%) (as per Nasdaq rules) 2Women directors
(29%)We seek to ensure our board benefits from a diverse range of skills and experience, welcoming individuals who can support our business objectives with appreciation of the context in which we operate, both from the standpoint of markets and technology, and also with an environment, social and governance (ESG) lens. Through our board refreshment process, we have added a new Board member each year for the past four years, each bringing valuable new perspectives. For example, in early 2022, Mr. Dirk Hoke joined our Board of Directors, bringing vast experience of leading global technology and industrial companies with a focus on electronics and transportation.“It is critical that companies take meaningful and industry appropriate steps to set and achieve ESG goals and that the progress is measured in a programmatic, factual, and consistent fashion.” Betsy Atkins, SolarEdge Director, from an article published on Forbes.com1Our Board maintains four standing committees whose members are independent directors. In 2021, to reinforce our technology capabilities and support effective leadership and oversight of related developments and cybersecurity, the Board established a Technology Committee. Our Principles of Corporate Governance are available under “Corporate Governance” on our website.1.	  ESG: Environmental, Social, Greenwashing? Forbes.com, Jan 17,2022. https://www.forbes.com/sites/betsyatkins/2022/01/17/esg-environmental-social-greenwashing About SolarEdgeAbout SolarEdgeCorporate GovernanceSustainability governance During 2021, we invested additional resources to support ongoing, management of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters in line with our sustainability strategy and business objectives. Overall leadership of sustainability at SolarEdge rests with our Chief Marketing Officer (CMO), a member of our executive management team. In 2021, we welcomed a new Head of ESG to our team. The Head of ESG reports to the CMO, and leads our global management of ESG matters, including performance development, monitoring, and, public disclosures. Throughout the company, business leads and functional heads support the delivery of our sustainability strategy and compliance with responsible business practices in their respective departments. Members of our executive management team serve as sponsors for the delivery of our sustainability targets. ESG policies and positions: In addition to our annual Sustainability Report, we enhance our disclosure on ESG matters with the publication of policies and positions. These policies and positions cover topics such as Compliance, Human Rights, Supplier Management and Supplier Code of Conduct, Environmental Stewardship and Climate Resilience. We plan to add more positions in the future to augment our transparency for all stakeholders.Incorporating ESG targets into management objectives: Based on 2021 discussions with shareholders, the company has integrated ESG-related performance goals into the overall 2022 company performance goals that are relevant for our senior executives, including our Non-Executive Officers and Chief Executive Officer, under our annual incentive compensation plans. These goals address topics such as the enhancement of gender equality in our workforce, reduction of GHG emissions, assuring the safety of our employees, responsible procurement, electronic waste recycling and ethics training. Risk management   Our Board of Directors oversees the company’s risk management process. We maintain a robust risk management program with the aim of ensuring that key risks, including strategic, operational, compliance, ethical, environmental and social risks are properly monitored and mitigated. Risks are prioritized on an annual basis using our risk analysis process that is led by our internal audit team. Management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors review the risk assessment and decide on priorities for internal auditing of risks for the coming year. We conduct several internal audits per year and report the results and corrective action plans to management and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.In 2021, cybersecurity risk was addressed as an area of increasing focus for our Board, particularly as more of our operations rely on digital technologies. In addition, as noted above, the Board established a Technology Committee to support the integrity of our operations and provide oversight of technology related matters, including cybersecurity. Our management team provides regular updates to both the Audit Committee and the full Board regarding our cybersecurity risks and our activities relating to digital security. For progress in information security, see section: Cybersecurity and Data Privacy.Internal audit: In 2021, our internal audit department reported on five different audits commissioned by the Audit Committee. The audits focused on intellectual property protection, fraud and employee safety, among other topics, while an additional eight investigations were held in response to various reports to our whistleblower hotline or issues raised directly by employees to their managers.About SolarEdgeMessage From 
Our CeoSustainability Highlights SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS29% of our directors are women (as of June 2022)29.5
GW of our systems shipped worldwide by the end of 2021, delivering affordable clean energy23%
increase
in global employees (by end of 2021, versus end of 2020)2.27 million homes   equipped with a
SolarEdge PV system 
by the end of 202123 million
metric tons
(estimated) of GHG emissions are avoided annually through the use of our installed systems8%
reduction  in greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1+2) per revenues122 women in management roles(up from 100 in 2020)Over 50 participants   in designated development programs for female managers and women in tech roles.Over 175 key suppliers    have committed to the terms of our supplier code of conduct New South-Korea Production Site1   for Lithium-Ion battery cell manufacturing, supporting growing renewable energy storage needs19% improvement   in the safety rate of recordable injuries (TRIR), compared to 202094% of SolarEdgeglobal employees received formal performance reviews33,400
hours     of total annual training time,
which are 8.37 average hours
per employee71% of generated waste was either recycled
or recovered to energyISS ESG rating:
among top 10%of highest rated companies in the Electronic Components sector1.	  Commenced operations on May 22About SolarEdgeMessage From 
Our CeoPowering Clean EnergySustainability HighlightsSustainability Strategy SUSTAINABILITY  STRATEGYOur sustainability strategy leverages high-performance smart energy technology to power the future of energy. With this, we aim to deliver positive impact for people and society, while operating in line with ethical and responsible practices. Our three-pillar strategy, developed in 2020, was influenced by our 2020 Materiality Assessment. The results of this assessment have indicated 11 material topics that have the most significant impact for our stakeholders. These material topics align with our business objectives, stakeholder expectations, and 10 of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.Powering the Future of Energy:
So we can all enjoy better living and a sustainable future2021 Performance Summary / 10Powering Clean EnergyPowering PeoplePowering Business Ethical and compliant conduct Climate resilience Resource efficiency Ethical sourcing Accelerate affordable clean energy Deliver smart energy solutions Product innovation Deliver sustainable products Be a responsible employer Protect human rights Invest in communitiesOur strategy is supported by multi-year targets in each pillar. Progress toward the delivery of each target is sponsored and supported by a member of our senior management team. In 2021, we continued to make progress as is shown in the following 2021 Performance Summary.Sustainability StrategySustainability Strategy2021 Performance 
SummaryPowering Clean Energy2025 Targets StatusPerformance in 2021GoalsAccelerate affordable 
clean energy Reach 2.5 million homes equipped with a SolarEdge PV system 2.27 million homes equipped with a SolarEdge PV system by the end of 2021 (cumulative). On track to exceed 2025 target. At least 30,000 GWh renewable energy produced by our customers using SolarEdge systems between 2020-2025 22,301 GWh produced in 2021. Total of 38,451 GWh of renewable electricity was produced in 2020-21 by our customers. 2025 target was exceeded, ahead of schedule. A revised target will be determined. Deliver smart energy solutions Introduce new applications for home smart energy management and electric mobility Launched significant expansion of our residential portfolio, the “SolarEdge Home” smart energy ecosystem, including a new residential battery offering. See section: Smart Innovation Product innovation Invest in innovations supporting the transition to renewable energy use, storage and smart energy management Launched S-Series range of Power Optimizers for all sizes of residential installations with advanced safety protection and easier installation.See section: Smart Innovation Deliver sustainable products Improve the lifecycle value of PV inverters  First comprehensive carbon footprint analysis completed for leading models of inverters and Power Optimizers.See section: Lifecycle assessment Exceeding TargetAchieved 2021 planBehind scheduleSustainability StrategySustainability Strategy2021 Performance 
SummaryPowering People2025 Targets StatusPerformance in 2021GoalsBe a responsible employer Continue to increase investment in training & development opportunities for employees in order to develop new skills and professional learning at every level  Delivered more than 33,400 hours of training
(8.37 training hours per employee on average in 2021).  Implemented several employee development programs. Formed career mapping and development planning for Service
and Hardware roles.   See section: Investing in employee development Increase gender equality and inclusiveness in our workforce. Achieve these targets by 2025: 38% women in Israel solar workforce (currently 30%) 21% women in Israel solar R&D roles (currently 17%) 24% women in Israel management solar roles (currently 18%)  30% women in Israel Solar Division workforce.   17% women in Israel Solar Division R&D roles.   18% women in Israel management Solar Division roles. Over 50 women participated in designated development programs
for female managers, and for women in tech roles. First detailed annual pay-gap analysis completed  (for Israeli employees);
no material difference found in pay by gender.See section: Diversity, equity ,and inclusion Achieve TRIFR (total recordable injury frequency rate) equal to or below 0.7 in all SolarEdge facilities Overall TRIFR rate in 2021 was 0.51 across all SolarEdge facilities including
both employees and contractors. This represents a 19% improvement over
2020 (0.63) and achieves our 2025 target. See section: Health, safety and wellbeing  Responsible Procurement  Achieve acknowledgment of the terms of our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) by all significant suppliers. Audit key suppliers to assure their compliance with the SCoC requirements on social, ethical and environmental issues.  More than 175 suppliers have signed their acknowledgment of the SCoC
terms or presented equivalent codes of conduct of their own. On-site SCoC audits conducted in three contract manufacturer sites,
and one major raw material supplier.See section: Responsible procurement   Invest in communities Establish a global structured community program with measurable community impact Three-year community engagement plan to start in 2022. Plan focuses on advancing renewable energy with a community value; STEM education and
youth innovations; and enhancing diverse population.See section: Communities Exceeding TargetAchieved 2021 planBehind scheduleSustainability StrategySustainability Strategy2021 Performance 
SummaryPowering BusinessGoalsPerformance in 2021Status2025 Targets Ethical and compliant conduct Enhance compliance and global training for Code of Conduct, Privacy, Intellectual Property, and Information Security  Code of Conduct updated to include expanded guidance relating to whistleblowing practices, political and trades union involvement, and human rights.Annual Code of Conduct, Privacy and Intellectual Property training for all employees planned to start in 2022. See section: Ethics and Compliance  Climate resilience Work towards 30% reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per $million revenue (base year 2020) 8% reduction achieved in 2021, on track to achieve our 30% reduction target for 2025 (VS 2020 base year). See section: Climate Change Mitigation Resource efficiency Achieve near-zero e-waste to landfill All e-waste generated directly at our facilities is collected and handled by certified WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) handlers and recyclers.