Powering BusinessWe believe that business is powered by trust, and trust is built through operating with integrity, decency, and transparency. We nurture a culture of ethical conduct throughout our business and aim to operate in ways that improve the impact and mitigates the risks of our operations on society and the environment.  Ethics and ComplianceEthics And Compliance / 47Cybersecurity and Data Privacy / 48Climate Change Mitigation and Resource Efficiency / 49Compliance: Compliance is fundamental to our business, as it protects us from risk, fosters trust with our stakeholders and provides a solid basis for sustainable growth and a positive contribution to society. We aim to conduct business in line with all applicable laws and regulations governing our operations in all countries. In 2021, SolarEdge was not subject to any fines for non-compliance with any of the laws and regulations that apply in all the regions where we operate. For more information, see our Approach to Compliance.Ethical conduct: Our Employee Code of Conduct sets out specific guidance for SolarEdge employees to conduct business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and establishes an expectation that all employees will act in accordance with personal and professional integrity. The code has recently undergone an update, to include expanded guidance relating to whistleblowing practices, political and trades union involvement and human rights. The Employee Code of Conduct has been translated to the local languages commonly used in most regions where our employees reside. A copy of the Employee Code of Conduct is included in each new employee’s contract, appearing in a language the employee can understand (same as for our employment contracts). All new employees receive training regarding the code requirements and confirm in writing their intent to comply with these requirements and their willingness to report suspected violations. In 2022,  we launched a new annual on-line employee code of conduct training program that is mandatory for all global employees. The training  includes emphasis and realistic work-place scenarios regarding issues such as anti-harassment and discrimination, anti-corruption, conflict of interest, political involvement, and more. The training will also re-inform the employees regarding the different channels available for reporting code violations.      Whistleblowing: Employees are encouraged to report suspected violations of the Employee Code of Conduct through different means, including a confidential hotline. All reports are promptly investigated and action is taken as required. In 2021, we investigated eight compliance related allegations as follows:As a result of our investigations, eight employees were dismissed, and one employee was subject to disciplinary action. In 2020, five reports were investigated (business integrity: 4 / 80%; misuse of company assets: 1 / 20%) and two employees were dismissed as a result.Topic Number of reports Proportion of total reports Business integrity 3 37% Human resources, diversity and workplace respect 2 25% Misuse of company assets 2 25% Environment, health and safety 1 13% Powering BusinessPowering BusinessCybersecurity and 
Data PrivacyIn a business heavily reliant upon communications technology for our PV monitoring capabilities, as well as for the day-to-day running of our business, we must protect our company and our customers against threats to our information security. SolarEdge’s Chief Information Security Officer leads our information security strategy and delivery, designed to provide security and promote a secure software development lifecycle.
We maintain an extensive set of programs and processes to provide a robust cybersecurity defense, including:
   Adherence to information security standards and privacy regulations including GDPR   Third-party certification to ISO 27001 Information Security Management Standard   Website protection for our online platforms   Protection against Denial-of-Service attacks(that prevent legitimate use
of our services)   Continuous security events monitoring in our security operations center   Incident response policies and procedures   Backups of our customer data against multiple data loss scenarios   Role-based access to our systems and programs   Cyber awareness training for all new employees as part of their induction program   Quarterly newsletters with relevant updates on risks and new cyberthreats
for all employees    Monthly cybersecurity drills to test employees’ knowledge and
reaction to cyberthreats   Company coverage for information security risks by an active insurance policy We introduce new technology and processes on an ongoing basis with the intention of reducing cybersecurity risks and aligning with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) cybersecurity framework for risk management. In 2022, we plan to introduce an annual cybersecurity online training that will be mandatory for all global employees.
SolarEdge has not experienced any material information security breaches in the past three years and minor issues have been reported to our Audit Committee. The company has not been subject to any information security breach penalties or settlement payments in the same three-year period. 
Our management team provides regular updates to the Audit Committee and the full Board regarding our cybersecurity activities and other developments impacting our digital security.Powering BusinessPowering BusinessClimate Change Mitigation and Resource EfficiencyReducing the GHG emissions of our operationsIn 2021, we reduced our Scope 1 & 2 CO2e emissions per million dollar
revenues by 8% versus 2020, achieving more than a quarter of our 30%
reduction target for 2025.
We are taking several steps and continue to search for additional reduction opportunities to allow us to progress towards our target:  We installed SolarEdge PV systems on the rooftops of two company sites (Sella 1 and Modiin, in Israel), partially replacing fossil-fuel sourced external electricity. We plan to install 2 additional PV systems on the rooftops of our new Sella 2 site in Korea, and our Reno site in the U.S.A.   We are implementing an innovative electricity savings method in the new Sella 2 site. The production process of lithium-ion batteries involves using significant amounts of electricity in the charge/discharge cycles of battery formation. The technical limitations of the traditional battery production process often cause this electricity to be discharged without reusage. In contrast, the new method planned for Sella 2 production is designed to use an innovative electricity reservoir, allowing for an estimated 50% of the discharged electricity to be reused.   In May 2022, our Sella 1 manufacturing site in Israel transitioned to purchasing all of its external electricity needs from a recently opened private power plant. This private power plant produces its electricity using a highly efficient process that employs natural gas exclusively for combustion. It has a significantly improved carbon intensity compared with the general grid electricity in Israel, which still includes partial combustion of coal. The related Scope 2 emission reduction will therefore partially commence in 2022, with full-year realization as of 2023.   To complement the previous step, we are examining additional opportunities for integrating renewable energy in other areas of our operations.SolarEdge’s solutions contribute to the efforts to mitigate global climate change. Our renewable energy solutions reduce carbon emissions by millions of tonnes each year, enabling individuals, organizations, and governments to reduce their carbon footprint.  Across our operations and in our supply chain, we continually seek to produce, distribute, deliver, and maintain our materials in ways that will minimize resource consumption and reduce environmental impact. Powering BusinessPowering BusinessClimate Change Mitigation and Resource EfficiencyResource efficiencies at our Sella 1 facility.................................................................Our Sella 1 manufacturing site in Israel started full operation in 2021. The site has been designed to operate at high levels of energy and resource efficiency, with continuous improvement being facilitated though advanced operation and monitoring systems. Existing and newly improved features include:     Operating new and highly efficient machinery, such as chillers, air blowers, air treatment systems and lighting, all designed to achieve high usage efficiencies and minimize energy consumption.    Site personnel engage in continuous monitoring and control of the site conditions and changing external climate to adjust the operating terms accordingly and preserve energy. For example, in 2021, the modification of the site’s air treatment system algorithm enabled the reduction of over a third of its original energy consumption.   The site uses a mixed bed resin system for water deionization (before usage in the production process). This system was designed to allow to almost all water consumed to be reused in the process. Further details below.   The optimization of the water deionization process parameters through 2021 has significantly reduced the frequency of needed resin replacement.   The output process water cleaning system was also improved through 2021 with a new precipitation tank installed upstream of the system’s filters. The improved process has enabled the significant reduction of needed filter replacements. Water efficiencyAlmost all water used in SolarEdge’s operated sites is provided by municipal water supplies. Water from other sources is a negligible part of total water withdrawal (<0.5%).Generally, the activities at all SolarEdge sites and offices, are not water intensive. The total of ~40 Km3 consumed by our global operation in 2021 is equivalent to the estimated annual domestic consumption of approximately 500 people (based on average consumptions in Israel)1.Nevertheless, we aim to conserve water wherever possible and use only what is strictly needed to support our teams in our global sites and offices. In several of our locations, we conserve water through water-saving devices on faucets and showers, and low-water flush mechanisms in our bathrooms.Our Sella 1 production site in Israel excels in water efficiency and recycling. The primary water on-site usage is for the washing of residual coating and solder flux. This de-ionized water is maintained in a closed cycle which is entirely separate from the site’s wastewater system. The output water from the process is re-treated and is almost entirely reused, with only small amounts of evaporated water being unretrievable. In 2021, over 6000 m3 of water were reused in this matter at Sella 1. In comparison, this means that 13% of our entire global water usage was composed of internally recycled water. 1.	  Source: Mei-Avivim water corporation- Average annual water consumption per person in Israel in ~80 m3.Powering BusinessPowering BusinessClimate Change Mitigation and Resource EfficiencyWaste managementWe aim to minimize waste from our operations and reuse or recycle what we cannot eliminate. We generate modest amounts of waste from our office activities, R&D laboratories, and production facilities.In 2021 59% of our total waste generated was sent for recycling,WITH AN ADDITIONAL 12%
of total waste sent to incineration with energy recovery. We recognize the challenges of electronic waste as a contributor to environmental degradation and are examining further options to reduce electronic waste from our supply chain with a target to achieve near-zero electronic waste-to-landfill. All e-waste generated directly at our facilities is collected and handled by certified WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) handlers and recyclers. In general, our products are designed for long-term use and carry multi-year warranties (10-25 years). Nonetheless, we work to ensure the recyclability of our products for their eventual end-of-life stages. Through our long-term engagement with our main e-waste handling companies, we have learned that our solar products (such as inverters and Power Optimizers) can be recycled, and in a cost-effective manner. Among other actions, we have ensured that the potting (protective polyurethane filling) that coats the assembled circuit boards and critical parts of our Power Optimizers does not create an obstacle for the recycling of the valuable electronic components. 
The e-waste handling companies have demonstrated to us their developed methods to successfully separate the potting material from the encased e-waste. The potting is also a key factor in assuring the longevity of our Power Optimizers, helping to protect them from weather conditions through their 25 years of warrantied lifetime. This allows for reduced material consumption and reduced waste generation, while achieving the increased power production that our systems allow.    In the past year, we have conducted on-site visits with some of our main e-waste handling companies and have found the on-site recycling processes for our products to operate according to our expectations. We will continue to examine the recyclability of our products (across all company affiliates), to ensure their compatibility within the new circular economy.Powering BusinessPowering BusinessClimate Change Mitigation and Resource EfficiencyNew office recycling programRecently, we launched an enhanced recycling program for our headquarters in Herzliya, Israel to further engage our employees in environmental practices while contributing to reduce our environmental impact. Supported by 40 employee Recycling Champions, we installed recycling bin systems at different locations in our offices and educated employees on how to separate office waste effectively. The program includes separate bins for food packaging, paper, drink containers, e-waste, batteries and expired medicine. Environmental compliance
of our operationsWe fully comply with all environmental (and other) regulations that apply in all regions where we operate. To date, SolarEdge has never experienced an environmental incident that resulted in any retaliatory steps from regulators in any country. We have not been held to any fines, penalties or sanctions related to environmental regulations. 