Powering PeopleOur PeopleInvesting in employee developmentWe continue to seek the best ways to encourage, engage and empower our employees to support our business objectives. We provide opportunities for personal development and support for professional advancement. Similarly, we invest in the well-being and safety of our employees so that they can be at their personal best, every day. Recruitment and onboarding: We rely on the success of our recruitment efforts to attract and retain technically skilled people who can support our ongoing innovation and expansion. We aim to be inclusive in our hiring practices, focusing on the best talent for each role and welcoming all genders, nationalities, ethnicities, abilities and other dimensions of diversity.In 2021, SolarEdge hired 1,411 employees,contributing to a net increase 
in the company’s global workforce by 23% in one year.Powering PeoplePowering PeopleOur PeopleGiven the fast pace of recruitment at SolarEdge, it is important to ensure the effective onboarding of new employees. In October 2021, we conducted a survey among all new recruits for that month – a total of 86 employees. 
Employees strongly agreed or somewhat agreed as follows:  91% The hiring process was professional and supportive
  88% I was satisfied with the information that was given to me during my first days
  91% I feel welcome and part of the team
  91% I am satisfied with the guidance, attention and availability of my managerWhile these are very positive results, we continue to examine opportunities to improve onboarding processes.
Hiring students: 
We encourage students to work part-time at SolarEdge while they continue their studies to prepare them for potentially joining the company upon completion of their degrees. At any given time, there are around 80 students in these specially tailored roles. In 2021, more than 20 students graduated and subsequently became full-time SolarEdge employees.
Internal mobility: 
In 2021, we introduced the SolarEdge Internal Mobility program. The new program was designed to encourage internal recruitment and provide exciting career and personal development opportunities to our expanding workforce. All open positions are now first offered to SolarEdge current employees worldwide who have been with the company for at least two years, and are performing satisfactorily in their current roles.   



Succession planning: 
In 2021, we rolled out a formal talent pipeline development strategy for senior roles across all divisions with an aim to:
  Identify individuals with the potential to fill key business leadership positions
  Map organizational gaps, forecast hiring needs, actively develops new pools of talent 
  Provide critical development experiences to those that can move into key roles
  Establish succession planning as a regular business practice at SolarEdgeWe completed our first succession plan review and continue to define and implement actions to create a robust leadership pipeline for SolarEdge.  

Training, skills and leadership development: 
We aim to provide our employees with advanced professional and development skills so that they can perform effectively in their roles and build their capabilities and career prospects for the future. We also maintain a program of annual performance reviews so that employees can receive feedback and plan their next career moves and professional development with their managers. 
In 2021, 94% of SolarEdge employees globally received formal performance reviews. 
This included all eligible employees.1 In 2021, SolarEdge employees participated in approximately 33,400 training hours, equivalent to an average of 8.37 hours per employee per year.1.	The remaining 6% of the employees were recruited shortly before the end of 2021, and therefore did not receive a performance review by year-end. Powering PeoplePowering PeopleOur PeopleAlmost half of our total training hours covered professional job-specific skills; other topics included a range of important skills to support delivery of business objectives, personal development and organizational culture. As part of our extensive investment in training each year, we provide leadership and development programs for managers and team leaders as well as advanced professional skills for sales, R&D and other functional teams. Such programs are defined each year in line with identified training needs and delivered to different populations as required. We also partner with local educational resources to offer formal learning programs on a variety of subjects.Training Delivery in 2021Ethics/Diversity 4% Management skills 8%Job-specific 
professional skills 43%Safety 21%Soft Skills 24%Powering PeoplePowering PeopleOur PeopleIn 2021, in addition to ongoing training offerings, we launched three new development programs:
Employee Development Soft Skills Program:
This program aims to provide quality training to help enhance individual and organizational productivity and growth by focusing on a core set of skills relevant to all employees.Main Topics of 2021 Soft Skills Training in SolarEdgeThe programs are delivered online, in line with annual training plans to meet training needs by region. In 2021, employees signed up for 47 total sessions of 11 different soft skill courses. Seventy employees signed up on average for each course session. 231Career Path Mapping Program: 

During the past year, we have developed specific career path frameworks to support the professional development and growth of two distinct employee populations with unique needs: those in service roles and those in hardware roles. We saw the need to create clarity about professional career paths and enable managers and employees to effectively plan personal development, while also supporting the retention and engagement of our employees in professional roles at a local and global level. During biannual reviews with managers, next career moves and training and development needs are identified for service and hardware professionals.
  Service Roles: Service is at the heart of our offering to customers, and more than 13% of our employees globally occupy service roles. These roles include: Technical Service Representatives, Technical Service Engineers, Field Service Engineers, Customer Care Specialists, Service Project Managers and more, each at differing levels of experience and skill. Overall, there are more than 35 individual service roles across our organization. Through the creation of our new Service Career Path Framework, we provide tools to map career progression options and training needs at each level for all service professionals at SolarEdge. 
  Hardware Roles: There are approximately 250 professionals in our hardware division at SolarEdge, and their development opportunities are defined by the skills and experience needed to advance in a technical or a management capacity. The Hardware Career Path Framework identifies the training and experience necessary to advance and the annual review process supports individual programs and identification of training requirements. The ‘Boost Your Career’ Leadership Development Program for Women: 

This program was specifically designed to support our goal to advance women to more senior roles at SolarEdge, and provide effective leadership tools for women. Read more in the section: Diversity, equality and inclusion. We also invest in building innovation and team-building skills, specifically for our employees in research and other technology functions. Our annual 24-hour hackathon inspires our teams to explore new product and service ideas that will help us achieve our purpose of powering the future of energy. At the 2021 ‘SolarEdge HackaWars’, more than 360 employees in technology roles competed to generate the best innovations, supported by 19 mentors from our senior leadership.  Also, we maintain a collaboration with Tel Aviv University’s Faculty of Engineering, whereby our R&D employees may attend academic courses on a wide range of topics. In 2021, 61 SolarEdge employees took advantage of this learning opportunity. English SkillsPresentation SkillsPositive Communication SkillsWorking From HomeTime ManagementExcelBy the end of 2021, tailored career plans had been developed for our service and hardware departments,  who together account for 19% of the total at SolarEdge global workforce.Powering PeoplePowering PeopleOur PeopleCompensation and benefits  
We aim to provide our employees with competitive compensation and benefits that enable them to achieve a good quality of life and plan for their future. We meet all mandatory employment requirements according to local regulations in each area where we operate around the globe. Accordingly, our employees worldwide are paid above the minimum wage and are entitled to statutory retirement saving programs, paid vacation days and sick leave, and other benefits according to local regulations.We provide additional employee benefits, beyond legal requirements. These benefits differ according to local norms in different regions, market preferences and company needs, with increased focus on employee health and well-being. The following are examples of such additional benefits—in all cases, a majority of our global workforce (>50%) enjoys different variations of these benefits:
  Stock-based compensation: Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). This program was recently expanded to include production-line employees in Israel who have been employed for over 6 months.   Annual bonus and performance-based bonus plans (MBO).  Additional (non-pension) medium/long-term saving programs.   Subsidized health insurance plans. 
In 2021, we conducted a gender pay gap analysis of our employee base in Israel at all roles and levels. For further details, see the section on Diversity, equality and inclusion. 

Upholding employees’ human rights 
As part of our stand on human rights, we respect the rights of our employees and are guided by the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. SolarEdge is committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and does not tolerate discrimination, harassment or retaliation of any kind. All employment practices and decisions, including those involving recruiting, hiring, transfers, promotions, training, compensation, benefits, disciplinary measures and termination, must be conducted without regard to age, gender, race, color, ancestry, religion, creed, citizenship status, disability, national origin, marital status, military status, sexual orientation, gender identity or any other protected status or activity, and must comply with all applicable laws. We prohibit child labor and all forms of forced labor. We do not employ individuals under the age of 18 other than for summer intern programs in certain locations (not in manufacturing roles). For additional details on this subject, see our Approach to Human Rights.Powering PeoplePowering PeopleOur PeopleDiversity, equity, and inclusionWe believe in the strength of an organizational culture that embraces differences 
and welcomes individual contributors who represent various dimensions of diversity. 
As we grow, we are striving to increase the presence of women in executive, management and R&D positions as well as taking active steps to increase the diversity of our workforce and inclusiveness of our approach and practices.
Around the globe at SolarEdge, we have been delivering training and education to support awareness and inclusive practices across our workplaces. For example, at different locations, we have:
   Provided foundational diversity and inclusion training for managers and employees.   Delivered training on the inclusion of people with disabilities in the workplace.   Hosted workshops, lectures, and webinars on a range of topics including valuing diversity; respectful and positive interaction; and Women of Color in Tech (as part of Black History Month in the U.S.).Advancing women

We work to create opportunities to hire more women at SolarEdge. In the past three years, overall women’s representation increased from 21% in 2019 to 26% in 2021. We place specific emphasis on supporting the advancement of women in executive and management positions and we have more than tripled the number of women in over the past five years in all management roles.We recognize there is more work to do to close the gap toward stronger representation of women at all levels in our organization. Our goal is to increase gender equality and inclusiveness in our workforce, overcoming the inherent challenges of gender equality for the tech sector. We recently set quantitative targets to promote this goal, focusing initially on our Solar Division in Israel, which constitutes approximately half of our global workforce. By 2025, we aim to achieve the following levels of women’s representation in our Israeli Solar Division workforce:
   38% women overall (currently 30%)   21% women in R&D roles (currently 17%)   24% women in management roles (currently 18%)
We plan to take the following steps in 2022 and future years to advance the achievement of these targets:
   Talent development programs for women (see below).    Partnerships with NGOs to better identify appropriate women tech-role candidates, and to nurture the next generation of women in tech.   Expand anti-bias training    Conduct an annual gender pay gap analysisWomen in all management roles12210081604120172018201920202021In 2021of management 
positions1   were held by women, compared to 13% in 2019. 17%1.	All levels of management – from executives to team leaders.Powering PeoplePowering PeopleOur PeopleTalent development programs for women  
The Boost Your Career Leadership Development Program was launched in 2021 as a global program to accelerate the advancement of women based on performance and leadership potential. It is a six-month program that operates at two levels: personal customized development and group learning and skill-building. Each participant completes a 360° performance and skill profile, in addition to custom training modules, including career management and communication skills. Additionally, following the structured training elements, the participants engage in facilitated group learning and networking. The program also included several one-on-one mentoring sessions for each participant. The mentors were former executives from global businesses, with each matched specifically by background and language to each program participant.  30 managers 
completed the Boost Your Career Leadership Development Program for WomenIn 2021, we also planned a new development program for women in R&D and technical roles with at least three years’ experience at SolarEdge. The program ran in the first half of 2022 and consisted of six workshops with internal and external facilitators and a TED-style summary meeting in which participants present conclusions to senior leadership. The workshops covered:   Grow your Career: Technology versus management careers   Personal influence: Goal-setting, managing strengths, managing personal brand   Organizational influence: Understanding company strategy, risk-taking, entrepreneurship21 women in technical roles  completed the Technical Career Development Program  “SolarEdge is very goal-focused, the growth from year to year is remarkable and those of us who are flexible, and know how to adapt to change, can really excel and bring added value to the company. I appreciate working in an environment where flexibility in working hours is welcomed, as that enables me to manage my role as a mother and my work role.” Elisa Rossi, Financial Planning & Analysis Manager, SolarEdge e-Mobility, ItalyProminent SolarEdge women leaders are also acting to promote gender equality in the different regions where we operate. For example, Joanne Park, Vice President, Human Resources at our South Korean subsidiary, Kokam, is an active member of WIN, the Korean Women’s Innovation Forum. WIN is a nonprofit that has created a network of female executives and business leaders in South Korea, supporting programs for the empowerment of women and the promotion of gender equality.Watch VideoAppendixPowering BusinessPowering Clean EnergyPowering PeoplePowering PeopleOur PeopleInclusion of different groups
In 2021, at SolarEdge in Israel and the U.S., underrepresented minorities accounted for 8% of our direct workforce (equivalent to 5% of our total global workforce).We aim to increase the number of employees from underrepresented minorities across our workforce, in all regions where we operate. Our main efforts are currently centered in Israel, where over half of our global workforce is located. We maintain several partnerships with social organizations in Israel, designed to increase our recruitment of candidates from the Arab community in Israel, ultra-Orthodox women, and individuals with disabilities. Our short-term target for 2022 is to recruit 20 additional employees from the Arab society in Israel, and 20 additional ultra-Orthodox Israelis. Our diversity-focused collaborations include:   Working with a specialist nonprofit agency (Tsofen) for recruitment of candidates from the Arab society for engineering positions.    Engagement with the Rayan Employment Center that works to integrate, promote and strengthen the Arab society in the world of work and training in Israel.   Additional collaborations that focus on the Arab community in Israel include supporting the integration of Druze women into the hi-tech sector (with the ‘Lotus’ initiative); and helping young engineering graduates from the Arab community become software developers (with the ‘Fursa’ initiative).   Engagement with Kama Tech, an organization supporting the placement of individuals from the Israeli ultra-Orthodox community in the local high-tech industry. In 2021, in a targeted recruitment collaboration, we hired 8 ultra-Orthodox women for software development positions.  Through this collaboration, we aim to recruit 20 additional ultra-orthodox employees in Israeli through 2022.   Partnering with a specialist program of the Ono Academic College (Roim Rachok—Looking Ahead) for recruitment of employees on the autism spectrum. These employees are recruited for specific positions through dedicated interview days. This initiative also includes training sessions for SolarEdge managers on integrating employees with disabilities into the workplace. To date, we have hired 4 employees as part of this initiative. In addition, the company funds recurring occupational therapy sessions for the employees with disabilities at SolarEdge at their place of work.  In the U.S, we publish our annual EEO-1 Form, which we compile as required by the U.S. Equal Opportunity Commission. This information, which reflects a summary of the voluntary self-identification by our U.S. employees in 2019, 2020 and 2021, can be found on our website.
Pay gap analysis: In Israel, to meet regulatory requirements, we completed an analysis of pay levels in our local workforce, representing approximately 55% of our global employees. The analysis is available on our website (in Hebrew) and covered pay levels by gender, job profile and department, examining gross salary and salary levels used to determine severance pay (excluding bonuses). Of the job groups analyzed, where both men and women were employed, we found no material difference in pay by gender:    Where pay gaps existed, an equal number of job groups favored women 
as favored men.   For all job groups, no pay gap was greater than 6% in favor of men or 8% 
in favor of women. 
We will continue to conduct this analysis annually, as required by law and to ensure that material differences are not created within comparable roles. Powering PeoplePowering PeopleHealth, Safety and WellbeingWe believe that all accidents and injuries at work are preventable, and we strive to achieve a zero-injury culture across our offices and operations. We comply with applicable occupational health and safety regulations and are certified to Occupational Health and Safety Quality Management Standard ISO 45001:2018. 
Safety performance: Overall accountability for safety at SolarEdge rests with the Vice President for Quality & Reliability, a member of our executive management. Safety performance is reported monthly to the company Chief Executive Officer and executive management, including specific safety incidents analysis, findings, corrective actions and updates on safety improvements.
Our safety practices include:   Nominated Safety Officers at each company manufacturing/R&D site;    Mandatory annual safety training for all employees;    Mandatory job-specific training is for all employees in relevant roles (for example, for those working in high-voltage labs);    Comprehensive safety, fire, and emergency drill programs to ensure employees are well-versed with emergency procedures; and   Root-cause assessments of incidents and corrective actions.In 2021, across our total workforce, we achieved 
a 19%  reduction 
in the rate of recordable injuries (TRIR).
Our overall TRIFR (rate of recordable injuries) rate in 2021 was 0.51 across all SolarEdge facilities including both company and contractor employees. This represents a 19% improvement over 2020 (0.63) and achieves our 2025 target (TRIFR <= 0.7).
This improvement was the result of focused efforts to reinforce both our safety management infrastructure and our safety practices. In 2021, we expanded our environment, health and safety (EHS) team with the addition of an EHS Director and additional experienced safety officers with expertise in the processes and technologies that characterize SolarEdge’s activities. They include electricity safety engineers who focus on preventing electricity-related incidents.  
In 2021, SolarEdge employees participated in more than
6,800 hours of safety training.
Though 2022, we plan to boost safety training with new emphasis on fire prevention and emergency handling, specifically focusing on the Li-Ion battery risks, as well as expanding first aid training and nominating a global network of safety trustees to help drive and maintain safety culture and practice throughout the organization. We also plan to implement new systems for tracking global EHS performance to help reduce safety risks and support ongoing EHS compliance worldwide. These will include:
   EHS regulatory and compliance monitoring   Incident reporting and investigation   Training managementCOVID-19 safety measures: During the ongoing circumstances related to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021, we continued to offer employees the flexibility to work remotely, and we maintained our rigorous hygiene and social distancing practices in the workplace as well as free antigen testing. We have continued to offer support and subsidized counseling to employees to address the mental health challenges caused or exacerbated by the pandemic.

Employee wellbeing: We believe in supporting employees in caring for their own health and wellbeing, so that they can live healthy and productive lives and also contribute their best at work. Throughout the year, on a tailored-by-country basis, we organize educational and sporting activities, including annual medical checkups, to help employees increase their awareness of health risks and provide opportunities for each to invest in their own wellbeing. In Israel, for example, in October 2021, we held our annual Health Week, hosting daily activities including Yoga, Pilates and stress massages, as well as BMI and breast health checks and lectures. See also the section: Compensation & Benefits for details of wellbeing-related employee benefits. TRIR (employees and contractors)0.710.630.51201920212020AppendixPowering BusinessPowering PeoplePowering Clean EnergyPowering PeopleCommunitiesAs a global leader in smart energy, impact is at the core of what we do. Alongside our continuous efforts to innovate and grow our business, we look for opportunities to create positive impact in the communities around us. To this end, we established a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee, comprised of employees from a range of functions within the company, to help progress community engagement programs while representing different internal views. In early 2022, we added a full-time role: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Global Lead with responsibility for oversight and effective promotion of our community engagement strategy and programs. In 2021, the CSR Committee concluded the development of a community engagement plan for the upcoming years. The 3 pillars of the plan include: 
   Advancing renewable energy for environmental community value.   Strengthening Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education 
and encouraging youth innovation.   Enhancing diverse populations.The plan also defined the criteria for CSR initiatives in the communities where our operations are located, emphasizing employee engagement and potential impact.In addition, community engagement outreach leads have been appointed in our different departments and regions and we defined a new policy for company-organized volunteering initiatives, allowing employees to volunteer one day per year during paid working hours.In 2021, SolarEdge donated $195,000, 
equivalent to 0.14% of net profits.1This was in line with our ongoing commitment to donate 
at least 0.1% of net profits to charitable causes annually.Our contributions included our annual funding of The Guy Sella Memorial Project and donations to nonprofits supporting child development and providing aid to people with special needs. The Guy Sella Memorial Project: This project was initiated in 2020 in honor and memory of Mr. Guy Sella, SolarEdge’s former CEO, Chairman and Co-Founder. As part of the project, the company has committed to invest $1,000,000 over ten years in a joint SolarEdge-Technion educational and technological initiative (with 2021 representing the second project year).The Technion, Israel’s leading technical research university, is committed to matching these funds. The Guy Sella Memorial Project combines teaching, research, and outreach activities for high school, undergraduate, and graduate students, including teaching labs and research fellowships.Donations Campaign: In Israel, where over 50% of the SolarEdge workforce is located, we have recently set up a donations channel for employees to donate to causes close to their hearts. The donation themes are aligned with our overall CSR focus areas: environmental sustainability, technological education and innovation, and advancing diverse populations. 
Support for Ukraine in 2022: SolarEdge mobilized to help address the urgent needs of hundreds of refugees from Ukraine who were housed in apartments in the North of Israel, close to our Sella 1 factory. Both the company and its employees have donated essentials such as baby-care products, women’s hygiene products, various household items and school equipment. Dozens of Sella 1 employees have volunteered to help with the packaging of refugee support kits. In total, our contribution to support refugees from Ukraine amounted to over $25,000. 
SolarEdge Charitable Donations, 2021The Guy Sella Memorial Project, 51%Supporting people with special needs, 25%Supporting women & children, 24%1.	Donation per profit ratio was calculated using the 2021 total donations, divided by the 2020 total net profits. We consider this ratio to be representative, since our donation budget is planned as the beginning of each year as a percentage of last year’s profits. If the 2021 total donations would be divided by the 2021 net profits, the result is a 0.12% ratio.  Powering PeoplePowering PeopleResponsible ProcurementSolarEdge Manufacturing Reach4      owned & operated factoriesowned & operated factories 
 
in Israel, Italy and South KoreaSolarEdge aims to maintain the highest standards of ethical, responsible and transparent conduct throughout its operations. In parallel, the company strives to ensure that the same high standards are observed throughout SolarEdge’s entire supply chain. The company places great importance on the conduct of the suppliers with whom we engage for the manufacture, storage, supply, maintenance and delivery of products and services.  We have designed our manufacturing processes to produce high quality products at competitive costs as part of a sustainable supply chain. We maintain a mix of in-house production and contract manufacturing. In 2021, we reached full manufacturing capacity in our manufacturing facility located in the North of Israel, “Sella 1”, from which we began commercial shipments to the U.S. of SolarEdge Power Optimizers and inverters in 2020. The proximity of Sella 1 to our R&D team and labs enables us to accelerate new product development cycles as well as define equipment and manufacturing processes of newly developed products which can then be adopted by our contract manufacturers worldwide. In mid-2022, we have also commenced the first-stage operations of our new facility, Sella 2, a two gigawatt-hour (GWh) lithium-ion battery cell manufacturing plant at our Kokam subsidiary in South Korea (see section: Expanding our battery cell capacity).We currently use contract manufacturing for the majority of our solar products. This production is conducted in four sites, operated by two leading global electronics manufacturing service providers, Jabil and Flex. Both of these contract manufacturers operate in accordance with sustainability principles and maintain sustainability programs in their own right, as well as complying with SolarEdge’s requirements. Due to the key role of these contract manufacturers in SolarEdge’s supply chain, they have also been prioritized as part of our first supplier on-site audits in connection with our Supplier Code of Conduct. Three of these four sites have already been audited to date (see below).   4      contract manufacturing sitescontract manufacturing sites  
  
in Hungary, China, Vietnam and Mexico 
	    for key SolarEdge products20      automated assembly linesautomated assembly lines   
   
for SolarEdge Power Optimizers*7K   workers involvedworkers involved    
    
in our global manufacturing process*1.5M  sq. ft. of manufacturingsq. ft. of manufacturing    
    
floor space** Includes own manufacturing and Tier 1 contract manufacturing  Powering PeoplePowering PeopleResponsible ProcurementSupplier conduct In 2021 we published our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) which includes provisions regarding, among others, Ethics, Safety, Environmental Protection, Human Rights, and Fair Employment. More than 175 suppliers have signed their acknowledgment of the SCoC terms (as of July 2022) or presented equivalent codes of conduct of their own. The suppliers engaged for acknowledgment so far were all related to our solar business activities. We aim to expand the engagement through 2022-23 to the rest of the SolarEdge divisions, and to begin including the SCoC as a mandatory part of our new/renewed contractual agreements with suppliers. Supplier managementOur Approach to Supplier Management covers suppliers of goods or services to SolarEdge and includes our commitment to engage suppliers that meet SolarEdge’s requirements in legal, financial, environmental, social, human rights and governance matters, including all the provisions defined in our SCoC. This entails conducting relevant due diligence before engaging new suppliers and monitoring supplier adherence during the course of their engagement with SolarEdge. We support our commitment through procurement staff training, supplier reviews and feedback and risk assessment tools. In 2021, we also conducted on-site audits of three contract manufacturer sites, and one major raw material supplier, in connection with their compliance to SCoC. These audits were led by SolarEdge’s global quality department and included a checklist of approximately 50 items that correlate to our SCoC requirements including, for example: Safety, Fair Employment, Environmental Management, Ethical Conduct, and preserving Human Rights. In cases where minor non-conformance issues were identified, the SolarEdge auditors have maintained contact with the sites to ensure the formalization of a corrective action plan and its execution.In 2022, we plan to conduct a SCoC audit for our fourth contract manufacturer site, thereby completing audits for all contract manufacturing. We also plan to audit another major raw material supplier as well as re-auditing some sites that were audited in 2021, due to their key role in SolarEdge’s supply chain operations. Human rights in ChinaIn recent years, the global community has raised concerns relating to abuses of human rights in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) in China. Some of these concerns have been connected to the sourcing of polysilicon, a key raw material in solar panel manufacturing. As detailed in our Approach to Human Rights, SolarEdge does not tolerate any abuse of human rights, forced labor or modern slavery. SolarEdge does not manufacture solar panels and does not maintain any facilities (manufacturing or other) in XUAR. We purchase solar panels in some cases to be sold as Smart Modules (where our DC Power Optimizers are pre-integrated with the PV module). However, this constitutes a very small portion of our global business, (PV modules amounted to less than 1.5% of all SolarEdge global sales in 2021). Nevertheless, we have reached out to our solar panel suppliers for their statements on this topic. The panel suppliers have declared they do not have any involvement or direct connection with activities related to human rights violations in XUAR or elsewhere.  We published a formal statement in this regard for our customers. See our published statement here.Powering PeoplePowering PeopleResponsible ProcurementConflict-free sourcingOur Supplier Code of Conduct and approach to human rights also includes a focus on conflict minerals. The illegal extraction and trade of natural resources, and associated human rights violations, conflict and environmental degradation are matters of growing international concern. These issues are especially acute in the eastern provinces of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Some of these concerns focus on the extraction and trade of ores of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold (3TG), which flow to world markets through the DRC and adjoining countries. Once refined, these metals are commonly used within electronic products and additional industries. SolarEdge does not procure metals directly. Nonetheless, we are taking action to increase transparency and ensure responsible procurement by our suppliers and sub-suppliers. SolarEdge’s policy requires that our suppliers who manufacture components, parts, or products containing tin, tantalum, tungsten, and/or gold must commit to sourcing those materials from responsible sources only and in compliance with SEC ruling and OECD guidance. Materials, which either directly or indirectly contribute to conflict or any human rights violations, are unacceptable. We expect our suppliers to define, implement and communicate to sub-suppliers their own policy, outlining their commitment to responsible sourcing of these materials, legal compliance and measures for implementation. We require suppliers to work with their sub-suppliers to ensure traceability of these materials (at least) to the smelter level, and report these details to us through CMRTs (Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates). The engagement with our suppliers is done through a dedicated on-line tool developed by a responsible sourcing specialized vendor, where the target suppliers are asked to upload their CMRT templates. The details of sub-suppliers reported through the CMRTs, are compared with lists of smelters with a possible risk for human rights violations. Where a high-risk smelter is identified within our supply chain, the company investigates and if needed, takes action to ensure we only source our materials from responsible sources.In 2021, SolarEdge identified 1,007 target suppliers that provided components for our products manufactured during the calendar year. Through the on-line tool, 453 (45%) of these suppliers provided satisfactory responses to our CMRT requests (compared to 43% in 2020, and 30% in 2019). The suppliers approached in 2021 collectively supplied 22,550 distinctive parts for SolarEdge products. The satisfactory responses by suppliers cover 56% of these parts (compared to 28% in 2020, and 13% in 2019).For further details, see our full Policy on Conflict Minerals and our Conflict Minerals Report on form SD for 2021. Our conflict minerals practices have so far focused on the responsible sourcing of 3TG materials, in accordance with the SEC regulations and OECD guidance. We are evaluating the addition of other materials to our responsible sourcing processes, to meet recent requests by some of our stakeholders.