POWERING CLEAN ENERGYOverview Electrification. Decarbonization. 
Decentralization. Digitization. These four words represent the keys to a smart, clean renewable energy future that will power the world for generations to come. With demand on the rise to meet growing population requirements,1 global electricity consumption is expected to increase by nearly 50% by 2050 compared to 2020.2 There is no better, cheaper, more accessible way to meet these demands than by harvesting the power of the sun to generate electricity for all. The solar energy share of the global installed electricity capacity mix, is likely to increase from 11% in 2019 to 38% in 2050.3 This share of solar energy will represent more than 52% of the expected renewable energy capacity available from all sources. Climate change is widely considered as the world’s single most pressing challenge.4 Therefore, the largescale creation of reliable renewable and carbon-free energy sources has become a global priority. Energy independence has become even more critical with geopolitical crises and economic unrest in Europe and other interdependencies across the globe. Fossil fuels are becoming more expensive and are environmentally destructive. Renewable energy is increasingly recognized as the “smarter choice”, offering both cost savings and new opportunities for energy independence. At SolarEdge, we are invested in being part of the solution to these challenges, and our progress to date in driving affordable clean energy and smart energy solutions is just the beginning. We are moving forward with our strategy to expand the accessibility of our technology to more markets, utilities, businesses, and homes. At the same time, we are driving innovation to scale additional applications, such as e-Mobility and storage.2.27 M homes were equipped with a SolarEdge PV system 
by the end of 2021.by the end of 2021.23 M metric tons of CO2e emissions are avoided annually through the use 
of our installed systems.5 Overview / 13Our Clean Energy Solutions / 14Affordable Clean Energy / 18Smart Innovation / 25Customer Service / 30Safe and Sustainable Products / 311.	  Global electricity consumption continues to rise faster than population, U.S. Energy Information Administration, June 15, 2020, https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=44095#                   2.	  International Energy Outlook 2021, U.S. Energy Information Administration, October 6, 2021, https://www.eia.gov/outlooks/ieo/introduction/sub-topic-01.php 3.	  New Energy Outlook 2020 by Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BloombergNEF) https://about.bnef.com/new-energy-outlook-2020/ 4.	  Climate change top challenge over the next decade, UNESCO global survey finds, UN News, March 31, 2021, https://news.un.org/en/story/2021/03/1088812  5.	  Emissions avoided annually through the full-year usage of all SolarEdge systems shipped by the end of 2021. The calculation was based on an average conservative ratio of 1,100 kWh per installed kW. The calculated KWh were converted to saved emissions using the Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator of the EPA: https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculatorPowering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyOur Clean Energy SolutionsAs the use of solar power becomes more widespread around the world as a source of clean energy for millions of people, it is important to maximize the renewable energy output of each installed photovoltaic (PV) system. Doing so facilitates the acceleration of the global transition to low-carbon energy dependence.The SolarEdge portfolio provides advanced technology for PV systems, allowing the harvesting and management of solar energy with an optimized solution.Our diverse portfolio serves as the backbone of our residential and commercial PV systems. Some of our systems are designed to meet the clean energy needs of individual homeowners and multi-family tenant buildings. Other systems, with higher capacities, are designed to serve various commercial, industrial, agricultural and utility needs.Powering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyOur Clean Energy SolutionsFull range of clean & smart energy solutions Solar PV systems, designed for maximum 
renewable power production: 
SolarEdge’s intelligent solution, combining inverters with Power Optimizers, has changed the way solar power is harvested and managed. This solution offers both design flexibility and performance reliability at the level of individual solar panels, ensuring that each panel delivers the maximum energy output.Inverters: SolarEdge inverters convert the DC power produced by PV modules to AC power that can be used in the home or business or exported to the local electricity grid. SolarEdge’s inverters have varying power ratings and feature sets. These variations are designed to match the specific needs of either residential or commercial/industrial solar energy systems, and to align with the characteristics of local electricity grids in the numerous regions where SolarEdge products are available.  Power Optimizers: DC Power Optimizers are attached to individual solar modules to maximize each PV panel’s DC power output before the power is converted to AC power by the inverter, which means more solar energy. Power Optimizers limit the ability of one PV module to affect the performance of other modules. In this way, power generation performance is maximized at the individual PV module level, increasing the financial and environmental benefits of the solar PV system. 
Powering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyOur Clean Energy SolutionsSolarEdge DC power optimized systems provide essential tools that manage smart energy production and consumption. These tools (see below) help to increase the efficiency of power generation and the overall electricity consumption of its consumers. The combined improved cost-effectiveness of these PV systems and tools, help to make affordable clean energy available to a broader population. Batteries: The SolarEdge Home Battery is an essential component of our solar PV systems. The batteries provide energy storage to overcome periods of low energy production (for example, limited sunshine) or no energy production (nighttime). This enables the supply of electricity from the battery, even in times of grid outages. Also, when grid electricity is required, the SolarEdge Home Battery enables charging at lower-rate tariffs, for example, overnight. The battery is DC coupled - it can store both AC power output from the inverters and direct DC power output from the PV modules. This important feature helps to minimize energy waste and maximize storage. EV Chargers: With up to 22kW charging power, our SolarEdge EV Charger can be integrated into a home or business PV system for single and three phase installations, both indoor and outdoor. It provides power for family or commercial vehicles, extending green living and working to include green mobility. Through the utilization of PV power for vehicle battery charging, the SolarEdge EV Charger amplifies the environmental benefits of electric vehicles: the solar power used reduces the need for charging the vehicle with more carbon-intense grid-electricity as is the case with most EV chargers.   Software tools: Supporting the installation and use of our products, we provide a suite of software apps for the management and continuous monitoring of SolarEdge PV systems and all connected devices. For example, mySolarEdge is our proprietary mobile app for home system owners, offering ease of monitoring at the module level, real-time control, and troubleshooting in the case of performance issues.  Communication options: All SolarEdge system components connect to each other via a cloud-based secure network and can be monitored and operated via an online connection. This makes it easy to use and facilitates real-time decision-making regarding energy production and storage. Powering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyOur Clean Energy SolutionsExpanding our battery cell production capacityIn May 2022, as part of our plan to advance smart energy availability, we announced the opening of our new battery cells production site. Sella 2, a two gigawatt-hour (GWh) lithium-ion battery cell manufacturing plant at our Kokam subsidiary in South Korea, started producing test cells for certification, with ramp-up expected during the second half of 2022. Sella 2 will enable SolarEdge to have an in-house supply of lithium-ion batteries to serve our customers in all markets, as well as other industries, with the capability to scale battery cell capacity in the future to support the growing needs for energy storage solutions. Powering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyAffordable Clean EnergySolarEdge is helping to make affordable clean energy a reality, in direct support of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) No. 7. We continue to enhance accessibility through our comprehensive solutions for powering homes. Our smart energy management systems address production, consumption, and storage needs, ensuring our customers’ power is always-on, always efficient, and always clean and green. On the following pages, we share some recent examples of our Smart Energy Management systems installed in our markets. Smart Energy ManagementEnergy GenerationEnergy ConsumptionEnergy StorageInverters & OptimizersOther Energy SourcesElectrical Vehicles ChargingWater HeatingServicesResidential StorageCommercial and Utility StorageElectrical Vehicle (V2G)Powering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyAffordable Clean EnergyResidential & community solutions
Our complete residential solutions offer homeowners and communities the opportunity to live sustainably in homes that generate and use energy from the sun. With residential and community systems representing a dominant share of our global revenue, 
SolarEdge systems enable solar energy generation in millions of homes located 
in more than 100 countries.Education powered by clean energy in the UKPupils at 11 schools in Coventry and South Gloucestershire in the UK can now attend lessons in solar-powered facilities that have cut nearly 300 metric tons from their annual carbon emissions. In addition, the recently installed rooftop PV systems provide the education authorities an annual saving of almost £200,000. The system was installed by Ineco Energy, a specialist in energy-efficient solutions, which selected SolarEdge’s DC-optimized systems to meet the local councils’ requirements for maximum energy generation, enhanced safety, and reasonable operating and maintenance (O&M) costs. With just a six-week window during the summer holidays to complete all 11 installs, Ineco opted to use SolarEdge’s Three Phase Inverters with Synergy technology at several of the schools. The synergy inverter is a modular inverter that splits the functionality of traditional commercial inverters into three smaller, lightweight units, enabling rapid and cost-effective installation. Another advantage of the system is that it can be oversized by up to 150% to increase energy production from solar arrays without having to add additional inverters, helping to keep energy costs low. “By using SolarEdge’s Synergy inverters, we have effectively ‘future-proofed’ the solar installations at the Coventry and South Gloucestershire schools by ensuring they have the capacity to grow in line with changing energy demand.” Angus Rose, Director, 
Ineco EnergySolar power, now and in the future, in ItalyAndrea, a homeowner in Italy, recently completed the installation in his family home of a SolarEdge solar energy supply and storage system. The system, installed by Global Solar, includes an 8 kWp SolarEdge PV System with integrated Power Optimizers, a SolarEdge inverter and two SolarEdge Home Batteries. This system provides renewable electricity for Andrea’s home, and is supported by around-the-clock monitoring and real-time decision-making capabilities, enabling Andrea and his family to live sustainably. Andrea is already thinking about the future and would like to expand his SolarEdge Home by adding an EV Charger to power his electric car with clean energy.    “I chose SolarEdge because I want to enjoy peace of mind when using solar energy to supply all my home’s energy needs” Andrea, homeowner, ItalyPowering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyAffordable Clean EnergySmart and green energy usage in Japan“The way we use electricity during the day has changed. I used to run the washing machine at night when electricity was cheaper, but now, when the weather is good, I use the electricity generated by solar power for the washing machine and other household appliances, so I use electricity more efficiently during the day. Another change is that I now use a monitor to see the amount of electricity generated and consumed on a daily basis.” Yuuichi Takemoto, SolarEdge system homeowner, JapanStoring solar energy in France “We use 68% of the electricity we generate, which is possible because of the SolarEdge battery that enables us to store energy and use it the day after 
when there may be less sunlight. We sell our residual electricity to the national electricity company.” Phillipe Cayoux, SolarEdge system homeowner, Pyrenees region, FranceLiving sustainably in the Netherlands“We came to the conclusion that solar energy is a great option to cut costs and live more sustainably at the same time.” Leonie van Harberden, SolarEdge system homeowner, NetherlandsDemocratizing affordable energy in TexasVirtual power plants (VPPs) enable entire communities to benefit from a low-cost clean solar energy source coupled with the ability to mitigate the impact of blackouts with grid-independent backup solar power. This is what’s happening now in Houston, Texas, with the installation of a series of first-in-kind residential clean energy projects for renters throughout Texas. The program deploys innovative community solar and storage VPPs, enabling communities in the region to empower tenants with cost-effective and resilient clean energy. Each VPP provides reliable energy supply to consumers, with financial and environmental benefits; royalty and income streams from energy sales for the real estate partners; and flexible capacity services to the Texas energy market, allowing utilities to leverage previously untapped distributed energy resources to support grid stabilization. This initiative was implemented by PearlX Infrastructure LLC, a flexible energy provider. The project utilizes SolarEdge’s PV systems and cloud-based grid services technology, along with cutting-edge design and engineering capabilities. PearlX finances the VPPs with minimal credit barriers, providing lower and middle-income tenants with access to community solar and storage, making solar an affordable reality for the thousands of tenants subscribing to the VPP systems. With this initiative, PearlX and SolarEdge are creating a widely replicable, decentralized model that facilitates accelerating the energy transition in Texas, while stabilizing the grid and minimizing the risk of grid failure. At the same time, energy consumers across the state can benefit from accessible clean energy.“Advances in solar and storage technologies are serving as the key enablers that are helping to drive the new democratic and distributed energy economy. Developments in software are providing the grid with much needed control to optimize the use of solar for different communities. This is making solar power more available and flexible, so that even renters can benefit from renewable energy.” Peter Mathews, General Manager, 
SolarEdge North AmericaWatch VideoWatch VideoPowering Clean EnergyPowering PeoplePowering BusinessAppendixPowering Clean EnergyAffordable Clean EnergyHelping global businesses transition to low-carbon energyWhile the rising cost of energy is often the primary driver for companies to consider alternative energy sources, the need to address climate change is becoming a growing priority for many businesses around the world today. Fortunately, SolarEdge solutions address both of these concerns. With fast, efficient, and safe installation, utilizing rooftop space that is otherwise unproductive, solar PV systems offer substantial cost savings and an attractive return on investment while enabling a cost-efficient path to zero-carbon operations. The following are just a small selection of recent SolarEdge installations from around the world.Rooftop solar for carbon neutral construction 
materials in the UKLitecast Ltd, a precast concrete company that specializes in the manufacture of concrete floor beams, selected a SolarEdge rooftop PV system to support its expansion, including at its new production facility in Nuneaton. The system (installed by ‘Your Eco UK’), generates approximately 284MWh of electricity, avoiding almost 80 metric tons of carbon emissions annually, and comprises 1,019 solar panels, 511 SolarEdge Power Optimizers, nine SolarEdge inverters and a SolarEdge weather station. With this installation, Litecast has progressed towards its goal to become the UK’s first carbon neutral construction supply company, demonstrating that clean energy is an accessible, affordable, and practical solution for decarbonizing the construction industry.  “Litecast is leading the transformation of the construction industry through its pioneering use of energy-efficient technology and processes. When it came to installing a solar solution, they were looking for a system that would generate the maximum amount of energy, while delivering more value over the system’s lifetime through reduced maintenance costs, longer warranties and advanced safety features.” Nick Spicer, Managing Director, 
Your Eco UKMore than
30% of Fortune 100 companies have 
PV systems optimized by SolarEdge.Powering BusinessAppendixPowering PeoplePowering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyAffordable Clean EnergySpreading smiles with sustainable energy in ChicagoRadio Flyer, a leading manufacturer of wagons for kids, is on track to go 100% carbon-free, including at its Chicago headquarters. Radio Flyer invested in an integrated clean power solution spanning four separate rooftop arrays using SolarEdge’s Three Phase inverters with Synergy Technology and Power Optimizers. In addition to the flexibility and cost-effectiveness of SolarEdge’s system, advanced fire safety features enabled compliance with Chicago’s strict safety guidelines and the latest National Electric Code (NEC) 2017/2020 requirements. The 606 kW SolarEdge system is designed to produce 737,000 kWh a year with an aim to offset more than half of Radio Flyer headquarters’ electricity usage, significantly reducing the carbon emissions they generate per year and with an annual savings of approximately $50,000 in utility bills. “Our mission is to spread smiles to kids of all ages and create warm memories that last a lifetime. We do this through our innovative products, but also by acting sustainably to improve our world. By working with Sunvest and SolarEdge, we took a step closer to achieving our mission.” Eric Selner, VP Operations & Sustainability, 
Radio FlyerFrom salt to solar energy production in TaiwanAn energy company in Taiwan invested in a 77 MW ground-mount utility-scale PV farm spanning 280 square kilometers, that is planned to produce enough electricity to power almost 350,000 households daily. The electricity generated is sold to the national utility company, taking advantage of an incentive program offered by the Taiwanese government and making affordable, clean energy a reality for people in this region. The solar array is located near the Chigu Salt Mountain in Tainan City, Taiwan, on land that was previously used to sun-dry large fields of salt. The SolarEdge installation comprises 674 X 100 KW three phase inverters with Synergy Technology and 57,000 Power Optimizers, while the SolarEdge Monitoring Platform enables real-time visibility and control of power production, enabling full optimization of the solar plant’s output. Real-time notifications sent to operations and maintenance staff enable quick identification of faulty modules and remote troubleshooting. This reduces the need for site visits and dispenses with the use of thermal imaging drone cameras typically used at large sites for inspection and diagnostics of PV panels. Remote monitoring and troubleshooting are estimated to save up to 50% in maintenance costs. Carbon neutral sorting center for DHL in IsraelRecently installed at DHL Israel’s flagship robotic sorting center, the largest of its kind in the Middle East, SolarEdge’s DC-optimized rooftop PV system is planned to produce over 750 MWh of renewable electricity annually. The produced solar power will be sufficient to meet 100% of the site’s annual electricity needs. Available excess energy will be offered for sale to the national grid operator. The system is expected to deliver a return on investment in less than five years while avoiding over 180 tonnes CO2e of GHG emissions. Powering Clean EnergyAppendixPowering BusinessPowering PeoplePowering Clean EnergyAffordable Clean EnergySustainable packaging gets greener in VietnamAlta Plastic Ltd. is a leading manufacturer of biodegradable plastic packaging products and food pouches with a manufacturing facility in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam that consumes approximately 300 MWh of power each month. To reduce the high electricity costs and meet sustainability objectives, Alta installed a rooftop 920 kW PV system with SolarEdge’s DC-optimized solution, including nine SolarEdge three phase inverters with Synergy Technology. 

So far, after 15 months of operation, Alta has cut down more than 520 metric tons 
of CO2 emissions (around 420 metric tons annualized), in addition to lowering
 energy costs by approximately 30%.  This solar system also enabled the factory to take advantage of a 20-year Vietnam-government incentive for installing PV and exporting unused energy to the grid. Generally, the solar energy generated by the PV system is used for the factory’s self-consumption, however, on public holidays, including the long Lunar New Year holiday, the plant is closed, and any produced power is exported automatically into the grid, enabling Alta to earn revenues from surplus energy. The integrated SolarEdge Energy Meter enables tracking of in-house consumption and exported energy.“Integrating renewable energy into the traditional plastics manufacturing industry is a critical step towards protecting our environment. For our plant, this means becoming a completely green manufacturer—in materials, machinery, and energy sources. The SolarEdge solution helps us meet our commitment to environmental sustainability.” Tu Minh Hoang, General Director, 
Alta Company JSC.Decarbonizing electricity generation in TahitiOur subsidiary, Kokam, a market leader in the manufacturing and supply of innovative lithium-ion battery solutions, has entered into contract to supply Electricité de Tahiti (EDT) with a Battery Energy Storage System (BESS), serving as Tahiti’s first Virtual Synchronous Generator (VSG). Comprised of a 15 MW / 10.4 MWh battery system with an integrated 20Mvar static compensator (STATCOM), the state-of-the-art BESS will replace EDT’s reserve diesel generators. The new system will cost-effectively reduce diesel fuel consumption, increase supply of renewable energy, and strengthen the grid. It is expected that this change will save EDT up to $1.25 million per year, in addition to reducing maintenance costs, making this an affordable system as well as environmentally favorable for the benefit of local residents and businesses.“Electricité de Tahiti’s BESS demonstrates how innovative and intelligently-designed battery solutions can help utility and industrial customers lower greenhouse gas emissions while also improving their bottom line and increasing grid reliability.” Ike Hong, Chief Marketing Officer, 
KokamPowering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyAffordable Clean Energye-MobilityThe e-Mobility market is evolving rapidly, with changes in consumer approaches and travel patterns noticeable post-COVID. For example, there is an appreciable increase in consumers preferring to own a vehicle rather than using public transport, and more than 50% planning to buy a car will choose either a fully electric, plug-in hybrid, or hybrid vehicle. 1Light commercial vehicle e-Mobility solutionsOur e-Mobility division develops end-to-end solutions for electric and hybrid vehicles, including innovative high-performance powertrains and software solutions that advance the adoption of clean energy transportation. Our light commercial vehicle (LCV) e-Mobility solution enables Stellantis, one of the world’s leading automakers, to enhance its contribution to greener city centers and cleaner commercial transportation. This is critical for reducing direct air emissions in densely populated urban areas.In early 2021, SolarEdge was selected to supply full electrical powertrain units and batteries for the production of the Fiat E-Ducato LCV. We have supplied more than 2,000 eLCV kits as at the end of 2021, with ongoing deployment planned through 2023. We continue to explore opportunities to support additional markets with our innovative e-Mobility solutions.SolarEdge e-Mobility division: Products supplied by end of 2021 (and their usage)1,525Mtravelled km2,153eLCV kits 165,000charge sessions1.	Why consumers are charging toward electric vehicles, Ernst & Young, May 23, 2022, https://www.ey.com/en_us/automotive-transportation/mobility-consumer-index-wave-3 Powering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergySmartInnovationCircuitSolarEdge prides itself on its innovative DNA. From the outset, our vision was to transform energy markets and change the way energy is harvested. We have relentlessly developed the most advanced technologies to bring renewable energy solutions to our markets, our customers, our end-users as well as for the good of the planet. We continue to develop new generation products that enable our customers around the world to harvest even more of the sun’s natural energy in systems that are flexible, affordable, accessible and safe - whether in the home or in a range of industrial settings such as corporations, factories, carports, floating installations, ground-mounts and agriculture. Principles driving innovation at SolarEdge:   Enable customers to maximize energy self-reliance with solar power produced 
by their owned systems;
   Drive customer electricity bills down while maintaining continuity of energy supply through smart storage and utilization;
   Achieve simplicity and convenience through a single system that manages and monitors energy production, storage, and consumption; and
   Facilitate control of home energy devices with a single app, providing a full range of data and commands for real-time decision making.Module designDistributed powerSolarEdge maintains 405 granted product patents with an additional 397 patents pending. 1  Our patented technology spans a wide range of disciplines.Battery chemistryMechanicsChemistryPower topologiesSoftware/MonitoringSafetyStorageE-MobilityMagnetics1.	As at end of December 2021.Powering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergySmartInnovationTransforming integrated home energy management PV for homeowners has been our core market from the outset. Although we continue to expand and diversify, our heart always holds a special place for those individuals who choose to live sustainably every day, relying upon SolarEdge technology to help them harvest the sun’s power and contribute to a cleaner, greener planet. A focus of our innovation continues to be enabling homeowners and home dwellers to gain maximum benefit from their smart energy installations.In 2022, we launched a significant expansion of our residential portfolio:
“SolarEdge Home,” the next generation in smart energy management systems. The solution is designed to dynamically manage, monitor, and optimize solar energy production, consumption, and storage in real-time. It also enables homeowners to optimize the electricity source selection at all times, reducing costs and minimizing the consumption of peak-rate grid electricity. Through monitoring and synchronizing the energy needs of all connected devices and appliances, SolarEdge Home automatically maximizes PV energy consumption, and manages the power load, scheduling decisions and homeowner preferences to ensure maximum convenience and cost-savings.“Home energy use is increasing, driven largely by the adoption of electric vehicles, home heating and cooling systems, and smart home devices. Reducing energy costs is therefore a top homeowner priority, as well as decreasing carbon footprint. SolarEdge Home is an advanced smart energy system that enables homeowners to manage and monitor solar energy production and usage in real-time from their mobile app. After changing the way power is generated and harvested from the sun with DC-optimization, we are now transforming the way in which homeowners can maximize the consumption of that solar energy within the home.” Alfred Karlstetter, General Manager, SolarEdge Europe.We aim to bring the latest innovative technology to as many markets as possible, while tailoring each offering to meet local regulatory needs and usage preferences in each market. In line with this intention, we expect to launch SolarEdge Home in North America, South Africa, and Australia in the coming year.  Powering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergySmartInnovationAvailable for single and three phase PV systems, SolarEdge Home consists of several new products to address the diverse needs of homeowners. These include:External DataSolarEdge Home Hub Inverter:Combining SolarEdge’s award winning and most efficient inverter technology with the intelligence, scalability and advanced safety features, the SolarEdge Home Hub Inverter is essential for managing the growing demands of energy hungry lifestyles. Additional devices can be connected to the inverter at the time of installation or in the future to help homeowners manage ongoing energy needs to avoid increasing power bills, overcome grid outages and support further home electrification.  SolarEdge Home Battery: SolarEdge’s storage solution offers 94.5% round-trip efficiency, storing energy to provide power when it’s needed most. This solution is designed to operate seamlessly with SolarEdge inverters. The SolarEdge Home Battery can provide backup power during grid outages (when used with the SolarEdge Home Backup Interface). It can also connect to additional SolarEdge Home Batteries for greater storage capacity and offers compatibility with third-party generators. SolarEdge Home Smart Energy Devices: A growing suite of scalable smart energy devices that enable increased solar energy consumption, including a SolarEdge EV Charger designed to enable homeowners to drive on sunshine and a SolarEdge Hot Water Controller which automatically diverts excess PV energy to provide hot water. SolarEdge Home Network: A proprietary wireless network that seamlessly connects and communicates with most SolarEdge Home devices. SolarEdge Home Operating System: The backbone of the SolarEdge Home, automates complicated storage, scheduling and energy source decisions. This software orchestrates the operation of all connected devices, energy production and consumption at any given moment to make sure the home’s energy needs are addressed as cost-effectively and efficiently as possible. Embedded Safety Features SolarEdge Home NetworkmySolarEdge AppSolarEdge Home Smart Energy DevicesSolarEdge Home Backup InterfaceSolarEdge EV Charger SolarEdge Home Battery Low VoltageSolarEdge Home 
Hot Water ControllerSolarEdge Home 
Inline MeterSolarEdge Home Smart SwitchSolarEdge Home 
Dry ContactSolarEdge Home 		Smart SocketSolarEdge Smart Modules SolarEdge Home 
Hub InverterPowering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergySmartInnovationNext generation Power Optimizers: 
enhanced safety and easier installation In 2022, we launched our S-Series range of Power Optimizers, now available for all sizes of residential installations. Our Power Optimizers increase energy output from solar installations by constantly tracking the maximum power point of each module, thereby reducing the mismatch power losses that typically occur in traditional PV systems due to shading or soiling of solar panels. This enables the Power Optimizers to maximize system uptime and energy production.Our S-Series includes our most advanced safety standards and ease of installation.  In addition to the SolarEdge comprehensive safety suite with integrated SafeDCTM functionality and rapid shutdown, the S-Series features SolarEdge Sense Connect, an industry-first technology that prevents potential electric arcs by continuously monitoring the connector temperatures. Also, the S-Series includes an improved cable layout design that makes system installation safer, easier and faster. We plan to expand the S-Series range to commercial installations in the coming year. “Just as advances in energy efficiency and improved economics are important for the proliferation of solar energy, so too is the attention to safety and installation practices that champion installer and firefighter safety. We will continue to set benchmarks in industry safety standards by focusing on innovative solutions that bring ever more reliability to the industry.” 
Yogev Barak, Chief Marketing OfficerReal-time PV control for homeownersOnce homeowners have installed a PV system with SolarEdge components, we want to ensure they gain the maximum energy benefits available, while minimizing their carbon footprint. To help them achieve this, we provide homeowners with mySolarEdge, a free monitoring mobile application. mySolarEdge enables tracking of solar energy production, consumption, and storage in real-time, and remote management of smart home appliances such as SolarEdge’s EV Charger. The app also provides users with critical system information and enables them to independently resolve routine system issues. From the installer’s perspective, the mySolarEdge app also reduces the need for site visits by allowing installers to offer fast and efficient remote support.In 2021, we added valuable features to the mySolarEdge app. For example, the new Weather Guard feature, launched in North America, is designed to automate, and maximize backup power. This is achieved by directing solar energy to charge the battery when a severe weather incident is predicted. Powering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyEnergy 
ManagementData & AnalyticsMicro GridSmartInnovationRooftop PV

Power OptimizersInnovative solutions for Commercial and
Industrial energy managementSolarEdge is increasingly developing comprehensive offerings for commercial, industrial, and utility applications, offering a suite of solutions for a diverse range of business energy requirements. Our new commercial solution is based on the three phase inverter with Synergy Technology which scales up to 120kW. This inverter maximizes energy production with up to 150% DC oversizing and includes technology that autocorrects to avoid module performance degradation. The modular design is composed of independently working Synergy Units and controlled by a single Synergy Manager for easy installation, serviceability, and energy management across large sites with significant ongoing energy needs. This new inverter embeds an innovative pre-commissioning feature that validates critical PV components, wiring and communications, and early-stage fault detection from a smartphone before connection to the grid. It enables installers to resolve all issues before leaving the site, significantly reducing the need for return visits. Due to its relatively lightweight design, this three phase inverter can be installed with ease and efficiency. It also takes PV safety to the next level with built-in thermal sensors to protect hardware and surge protection devices to withstand surges caused by lightning or grid events.The SolarEdge Monitoring Platform enables tracking of the system in real-time with remote, module-level monitoring and troubleshooting. Synergy Inverter120kWEV ChargersCommercial
StorageCarport PVPower OptimizersPowering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergyCustomer 
ServiceThe primary interface for homeowners and users of SolarEdge systems is often our wide network of independent installers. We invest in educating our installers so that they can improve their installation skills and minimize installation time, and so that our end customers can enjoy a positive installation experience and start harvesting the sun’s power in an expedited manner.In 2021, as Covid-19 related lockdowns continued to make in-person training events impractical in many countries, we continued to offer training programs using a hybrid approach that combined hands-on and digital learning techniques. As a result, we were able to significantly increase our overall training reach, offering more than 400 training events and attracting approximately 50,000 participants.Our EDGE Academy, an intuitive web-based learning portal for SolarEdge installers, offers a multi-level certification program, available in 11 different languages. Each completed certification is valid for two years.SolarEdge certification programs are offered at three levels to support the knowledge progression of SolarEdge installers. In 2021, over 16,000 certification courses were completed in the EDGE academy, for all available certification levels.Customer service and satisfaction continues to be a key component of our business and we consider it integral to our overall success. We maintain high levels of customer engagement supported by over 600 employees who specialize in customer support and training. This engagement is maintained by the call centers that we operate in 6 countries, together with local field service engineers, assisting our customers with commissioning of large projects, introduction of new technologies and features, and on.the.job training of new installers.	In 2021, over 120,000EDGE Academy courses were completed,the grand majority of which by SolarEdge installers.1In 2021, we received over 1.25Mservice requests through our customer service channels. The average satisfaction rate for our response was 4.5/5 overall.1.	A minor part of the courses completed were taken by SolarEdge employeesPowering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergySafe and Sustainable 
ProductsAt SolarEdge, safety is a primary feature of all our product offerings, and is a key element of our product design, development and testing. Similarly, as an industry leader in technologies that promote environmentally friendly solutions for energy generation, we strive to minimize the footprint of our value chain as much as possible. Product safetyAll SolarEdge products are designed with safety in mind, both at the individual component level and at the level of the overall system. We use the most advanced technology to protect users, installers, maintenance staff and anyone who comes in contact with our products from potential safety risks at all times. The overall managerial responsibility for product safety at SolarEdge belongs to the SolarEdge executive product safety committee, which consists of our VP R&D, VP Customer Service, VP Quality & Reliability and VP General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Product safety issues and risks are discussed in the committee on a quarterly basis.
Each product safety incident or risk is examined by a combined team of our product, service, and R&D experts. This team works to determine the source of the hazard. Once the source is identified, corrective actions are set in place with adjustments to the relevant practices: installation training, product manuals, product physical design, product algorithms, monitoring systems or other safety features. Due to the often-high voltage of PV systems, precautions must be taken to ensure the safety of people and avoid property damage. The SolarEdge PV system adopts a holistic approach in reducing the risks associated with electrocution and fire by providing an integrated safety solution that combines enhanced protection and detection mechanisms.These mechanisms comply with stringent safety requirements by:  Reducing a PV system’s DC voltage to a safe level when the system is shut down  Designing for early fault detection  Applying active and continuous protection mechanisms  Supporting module-level monitoring with actionable fault alerts  Allowing conductors to rapidly discharge their electric load down to
safe voltage levelsFor example, a key element of our integrated safety system is our SafeDC™ built-in proprietary safety technology. This feature is designed to minimize the risk of electrocution from high DC voltage. Upon activation of SafeDC™, our Power Optimizers automatically revert to their default touch-safe voltage of only 1V in less than one minute. SafeDC™ is activated in the following cases: During installation, when strings are disconnected from the inverter, or the inverter is turned off; When the inverter is locked or disabled; When the inverter or AC connection is shut down. The SafeDC™ feature helps to protect people engaged in PV system inspection and maintenance activities, as well as enabling emergency responders to address fires in homes or other buildings with confidence that the system does not pose an additional hazard.Our monitoring abilities are another core part of our holistic safety management system. SolarEdge’s platform provides real-time remote monitoring at the module, string, and system level, allowing for greater visibility of system performance. The platform’s automatic alerts are designed to provide accurate and immediate fault detection, allowing for better hazard recognition and rapid response in case of product safety incidents.An additional important safety feature of our systems is our advanced electric arc detection and prevention mechanism. An electric arc is an unintended, prolonged electrical discharge occurring across a small air gap. Since photovoltaic systems have many connection points, arc faults can occur, causing potential fire hazards. SolarEdge has developed state-of-the-art arc fault detection algorithms and AFCI (Arc Fault Circuit Interrupter) mechanisms. These algorithms are designed to locate potential arc faults and to prevent them through corrective actions, and are available for implementation on more than a million of our inverters. The algorithms were tested by certification entities and third-party companies to ensure that they pass the set requirements and provide the expected performance, under a full range of electrical conditions and various types of installations.We dedicate significant resources to widespread safety training, focusing on potential risks related to our business and products, such as electrification, fire and working on roofs. This training is conducted both for our employees (see “Health, Safety and Wellbeing”) and our global community of installers (see “Customer Service”).Powering Clean EnergyPowering Clean EnergySafe and Sustainable 
ProductsStandard certificationSolarEdge complies with the following international quality and environmental standards:We aim to certify all the manufacturing and R&D sites under our operational control according to relevant ISO standards for management systems in the fields of quality, environment and safety.By the end of 2021, 100% of the designated sites in all relevant countries (Israel, South-Korea, Italy and the US) were certified to ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environmental management).Almost all designated sites (92% by headcount) are also certified to ISO 45001 
(safety management). One remaining site (Italy) is planned to complete this certification in 2023. Lifecycle assessmentSolarEdge solutions support the worldwide transition to renewable, low-carbon power generation and consumption. The use of our systems allows for millions of tonnes of GHG emissions to be avoided each year. We also strive to examine and reduce the carbon emissions related to the sourcing, production and shipping of our products.    In late 2021, we completed our first comprehensive carbon footprint analysis of leading models of our inverters and Power Optimizers. The analysis process was led and certified by the carbon footprint and decarbonization experts, the Carbon Trust. The analysis allows us to understand the main emission sources throughout our products’ lifecycle, helping us better understand our emission reduction opportunities. SolarEdge is among the first solar energy companies to complete this analysis, meeting customer needs and expectations. We are currently examining the expansion of LCA analysis scope for additional products and/or additional environmental impacts.  Sustainable packagingIn recent years, the packaging design process for new SolarEdge products focused on finding cost-effective packaging molds that could be made from recyclable materials while fully protecting our products from harm during shipment. Wherever such reasonable options were found, the company designed, and is now using, recyclable packaging using materials such as cardboard, pulp and wood. As a result of this process, the packaging of our Power Optimizers, our battery packages, and some additional products, is made from these recyclable materials. We continue the search for recyclable packaging options for our other products as well, striving to meet both physical and reasonable cost criteria. In parallel, we are monitoring evolving regulations on packaging materials in different global regions to ensure our current and future compliance. Product End-Of-LifeWe build our products for lasting performance, offering a 25-year warranty for most Power Optimizers and 12 years for most inverters, so customers can benefit from highly efficient clean energy without wasting resources in replacement units. Nonetheless, we work to ensure the recyclability of our products, when reaching their eventual end-of-life stages. See full details in section “Waste Management”. We also help in securing a sustainable end-of-life for our products by participating in the EU “Take Back” program of the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive.Powering People POWERINGPEOPLETechnology is created by people. That’s why, at SolarEdge, we are people-first. Our people believe passionately in our purpose to power the future of energy and know that, as our business grows, so does our contribution to making our planet a place where all can thrive. Everyone at SolarEdge has a role to play in creating a cleaner, greener future. At the same time, we seek to create a workplace that enables everyone to be at their best. This means living our values, operating ethically and responsibly, nurturing open and respectful communication, welcoming our differences and caring about each other and our communities. We invest in building the capabilities of our people so they can enhance their contribution. And, we love having fun while we do all of the above! 4,000Our People / 33Health, Safety and Wellbeing / 42Communities / 43Responsible Procurement / 443,251Our People2,577Employees by yearOur success depends on our ability to attract, retain and engage outstanding employees at all levels of our business. In 2021, we further expanded our organization to meet the increasing demand for the sustainable benefits our energy solutions deliver. To support the needs of our fast-growing business and our global workforce, which has more than quadrupled in the past five years, we invested in our human resources infrastructure, including recruitment, onboarding, development and engagement processes while continuing to reinforce our entrepreneurial spirit and values-based culture. 