Governance Our Board of Directors SolarEdge is a publically traded company (NASDAQ: SEDG). The SolarEdge Board of Directors is a strategic asset for the Company, helping us deliver on the long-term values of excellence, integrity, and innovation. The Board meets multiple times during the year to review important strategic decisions and act on matters requiring Board approval. The Board is elected by the Company’s stockholders, and oversees the management of the Company and its business. The Board selects executive officers, who are responsible for operating the Company’s business, and monitors the performance of the executive officers. The Board has three standing committees: Audit, Nominating/Corporate Governance and Compensation. The Audit, Nominating/Corporate Governance and Compensation Committees consist solely of independent directors. In addition, directors who serve on the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee must meet additional, heightened independence criteria applicable to directors serving on these committees under NASDAQ Stock Market LLC listing standards. Awards & Recognitions SolarEdge’s relentless innovation has yielded multiple innovations and technologies that the industry and business world have deemed worthy of recognition. Selected awards received by SolarEdge SolarEdge Wins Solar Power World’s 2018 Leadership in Solar in the Inverter Category Solar Power World’s seventh annual Leadership In Solar Winners were selected by its user community casting votes on which companies they feel best exemplify solar leadership in each category. SolarEdge was selected as the winner in the inverter category. SolarEdge Wins New Product of the Year for its EV-charging single phase inverter in the Energy category from the 2018 BIG Awards Founded with the mission of recognizing true talent and outstanding performance in the business world, the Business Intelligence Group awards companies whose achievements stand above those of their peers. SolarEdge won the award in the New Product of the Year Award for its EV-charging single phase inverter in the Energy category. SolarEdge Wins Solar + Power Awards in the Smart Energy Management Category for its Grid Services and Virtual Power Plant Solution The Solar + Power Awards, voted for by the industry, recognize the whole solar value chain and those people, products, and services that develop innovative manufacturing and product approaches that have the potential to change the way we live. SolarEdge won the award in the Smart Energy Management Category for its grid services and virtual power plant solution. April 2018 – SolarEdge Wins Edison Award in Renewable Energy Category for HD-Wave inverter technology The Edison Awards is a premier awards program in the United States recognizing innovation. SolarEdge won the award for its HD-Wave technology inverter. June 2016 – SolarEdge Wins the Intersolar Award in Photovoltaic The Intersolar AWARD recognizes innovative technical products and solutions. SolarEdge won the award for its HD-Wave technology inverter. June 2012 – SolarEdge Wins the Prestigious Intersolar 2012 Innovation Award The Intersolar Award honors solar companies for innovative ideas and technological breakthroughs. The distinguished award was granted to SolarEdge’s next generation power optimizer featuring the new IndOP™ technology which allows broader market adoption of power optimizers. Future Vision As a global leader in smart energy technology, SolarEdge is dedicated to working with like-minded industry leaders who are committed to developing new solutions that make going solar more affordable. Our vision is to provide the market with more holistic smart energy systems. Our focus over the past few years has been to expand our presence from residential to commercial and utility scale markets while at the same time expanding our product portfolio in multiple regions worldwide. As we look to the future, we see significant overlap between the EV and PV markets. We believe that by combining the two solutions, we can accelerate the adoption of both technologies and give individuals more control over their energy usage, thus reducing their carbon footprint. With this in mind, we introduced the EV charging inverter, which reflects our ongoing commitment to develop smart energy solutions that improve the ways in which we produce and consume energy. In 2018, we also launched an innovative solution for grid services and virtual power plants. Our grid services offer aggregative control and data reporting enabling the pooling of PV and storage in a cloud computer for the creation of virtual power plants. The solution provides utilities with the tools to leverage distributed energy generation systems to more efficiently meet demand. Energy retailers also enjoy protection from price peaks, and PV system owners increase their revenue from joining the new energy economy. Implementing a new model of energy generation requires simultaneous advancements at the hardware, system and network levels At the system level, Our HD-Wave inverter made PV more energy-efficient and cost effective, synchronizing energy production, usage, and storage to create a seamless user experience with our monitoring platform. At the network level, our grid services enable the aggregation and synchronization of multiple PV systems to create a distributed network. This is an important milestone in making solar energy ubiquitous. As PV markets evolve from feed-in tariffs to net-metering, and finally to self- consumption, storage services will provide homeowners with the opportunity to maximize self-consumption and take advantage of time-of-use tariffs as a revenue stream. We have made recent acquisitions for the purpose of taking our business to new fields outside the solar arena. Our expansion into the e-mobility, energy storage, and UPS businesses will allow us to further proliferate our technology and create a comprehensive new way of producing and managing energy. Looking to the Future Sustainable development involves the vision and ability to improve the present generation’s quality of life, while simultaneously protecting it for future generations. Our vision is to be the world’s most innovative and progressive smart energy company, creating sustainable solutions essential for a better, safer and healthier life for people everywhere. The development of sustainable energy resources is both a challenge and a necessity. We believe that every company in the 21st century has an obligation to address environmental insecurity and to make concerted efforts to ensure a more sustainable use of our planets’ precious and finite resources. As the premise of our business is the development of environmentally sustainable systems through new technology, SolarEdge is situated at the forefront of this challenge. Sustainable development is not just a building block of economic growth, it benefits both our business, and our planet. Cautionary Note Regarding Comparisons This report contains the results of case studies for actual SolarEdge solar PV systems using PVsyst simulated results for our system, as well as system architectures employing traditional string invertors. In creating these case studies, we have made a number of assumptions and estimates based on our knowledge of industry practice with respect to the relative design, hardware, permit, installation, operation and maintenance cost of each system.  These assumptions and estimates involve uncertainties and are subject to change over time, however, we believe that these assumptions and estimates are reasonable and represent our best knowledge of these systems.  In addition, each solar PV system will have its own unique physical and system characteristics which may result in a different comparison. Cautionary Note Regarding Market Data This report contains market data from certain third-party sources.  This information is based on industry surveys and the preparer’s expertise in the industry and there can be no assurance that any such market data is accurate or that any such industry forecasts will be achieved.  Although we have not independently verified the accuracy of such market data and industry forecasts, we believe that the market data is reliable and that the industry forecasts are reasonable. Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This report contains forward looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These for- ward-looking statements include information, among other things, concerning: our possible or assumed future results of operations; future demands for solar energy solutions; business strategies; technology developments; financing and investment plans; dividend policy; competitive position; industry and regulatory environment; general economic conditions; potential growth opportunities; and the effects of competition. These forward-looking statements are often characterized by the use of words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “seek,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “project,” “should,” “will,” “would” or similar expressions and the negative or plural of those terms and other like terminology. Forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and our projections about future events. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Given these factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. All information set forth in this report is as of December 31st, 2018. The Company undertakes no duty or obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information, future events or changes. 