Community Corporate Social Responsibility We place great importance on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). By integrating CSR into our company guidelines, we expect all our employees to adhere to all aspects of legal, ethical, environmental and safety compliance. Beyond striving to improve the quality and efficiency of our products, we believe that a clear directive on corporate social responsibility is a must for any successful company to thrive. By working together and applying our guidelines for corporate social responsibility to daily business practices, we hope that SolarEdge’s employees, suppliers, and partners will help make a positive impact on society. SolarEdge employees worldwide, including consultants and contractors, are obliged to follow the CSR directives in the workplace. SolarEdge management actively promotes and encourages employees under their supervision to apply CSR rules at SolarEdge. SolarEdge is committed to promoting a fair and respectful workplace, focusing on: A diverse work environment, free of any form of prejudice or discrimination made against SolarEdge employees, business partners, suppliers, or customers. Equal opportunities for all job applicants seeking employment at SolarEdge. Clear communication and respect between company employees and third parties, to help achieve successful results as well as increased productivity. Fair pay and benefits, covering the resources necessary for employees’ long-term physical well-being, allowing a safe, decent standard of living. Employment security, ensuring SolarEdge employees feel safe and secure in the workplace. We hire and promote employees who are ethical and honest with their co-workers and customers. We value, reward, and promote employees who are self-motivated to learn and improve. SolarEdge thrives through employees who are intelligent problem-solvers, and we encourage and promote a culture of active problem solving. More information about CSR can be found in the link below: http://investors.solaredge.com/corporate-governance/highlights?c=253935&p=irol.govHighlights Sustainability Committee SolarEdge’s commitment to environmental leadership and sustainability is a message strongly embedded within the Company’s DNA. In 2018, The Sustainability Committee was established in order to support environmental initiatives in four key areas: transportation, smart consumption, energy and resources, and waste management. The committee is led by the SolarEdge Environmental Manager and other volunteer employees. Its primary objective is to roll out initiatives that will help create a greener environment in the workplace, such as recycling facilities, replacing kitchen disposables and planting green roofs. A carpooling collaboration with Waze (a navigation software app) is underway for SolarEdge employees in Israel, for the purposes of reducing air pollution and carbon emissions, as well as traffic congestion in the Herzliya industrial zone. Philanthropy SolarEdge supports worthy social, charitable, and humanitarian causes through donations and voluntary work undertaken by SolarEdge employees. Donation Program In 2017, SolarEdge established a donation program to help give back to the community. For its donation program, SolarEdge has prioritized technology education enrichment in local areas, as well as social welfare for those in need. In order to fulfill its mission, the donation program earmarks a fixed portion of its consolidated net profit from the previous financial year for the purpose of donations in the subsequent financial year. SolarEdge employees are encouraged to join the donation program subcommittee, comprised of the General Counsel and a team of employees. The subcommittee performs the initial screening of donation requests and makes recommendations to the Donation Committee, comprised of the Company’s CEO, CFO, VP of Marketing and Product Strategy, VP Sales and General Counsel. SolarEdge offices lit in pink for Breast Cancer Awareness Community Outreach In addition to donating funds, SolarEdge believes in contributing to our local communities and active community participation. We encourage volunteering initiatives both during and after working hours. We regularly monitor and evaluate our participation in these initiatives and encourage partnerships with our local communities. We are proud of our employees who take part in all the various local activities. Whether by customizing cars to accommodate unique disabilities, by helping build schools and an orphanage in third-world countries, or through mentoring children within the community, SolarEdge employees have been making a positive and significant impact. Since 2018, employees in our Israel office volunteer their time and expertise to support the “Go Baby Go” organization. By contributing to and volunteering with this organization, SolarEdge and its employees help in the customization of motorized toy vehicles for disabled children, free of cost. This enables the children to be mobile, and also empowers their social and emotional development. In 2018, SolarEdge and “Go baby Go” committed to a four-hour workshop, once a quarter. The employees work in seven teams of four volunteers to adjust the cars according to each child’s individual needs. Some of the workshops take place at our headquarter offices. In 2018, a SolarEdge employee initiated a “GoFundMe” campaign in Cambodia, which involved installing solar systems to supply the required power and electricity to a school. SolarEdge further supported the campaign by donating all the inverters and optimizers for the solar system, which in turn allowed the budget to be allocated to basic structures such as roofing, toilets and a kitchen. In 2018 and 2017, SolarEdge employees from our Fremont offices trained for and participated in the annual “Play for Power” softball tournament in order to raise money for a PV system for an orphanage in Mexico. In recent years, during Breast Cancer Awareness Month, SolarEdge has promoted breast cancer awareness by donating to breast cancer research. We also invite our employees to attend seminars, which include hearing the personal story of a breast cancer survivor. Employees Workplace Culture SolarEdge recognizes that in order to fulfill our mission we require a diverse group of highly qualified individuals. SolarEdge maintains a comprehensive and competitive benefits program for its employees and their families to help ensure we attract and retain the best-suited people to carry out its mission. SolarEdge has an employee benefits program that: Recognizes benefits are an important element of total compensation from the Company. Is dynamic and innovative, changing as necessary to meet the changing needs and balancing of work life issues of both employees and the Company. Is communicated effectively to promote full understanding and value of the benefits program. Provides flexibility over the design and cost of benefits – in order to deliver the highest quality and value at a reasonable cost for both the individual and the Company. Reflects principles of sound financial management, fiscal responsibility, regulatory compliance and administrative efficiency at all times. Provides a safety net of basic benefits protection against the financial impact of catastrophic life events. SolarEdge offers and encourages pension contribution options to employees. Employees are entitled to sick leave, vacation, and annual recreation allowance according to the applicable directive. Employees are eligible to receive an annual target-based bonus, to be evaluated and paid based on the annual business targets and strategic objectives as defined by the employee’s direct manager. Subject to the approval of the compensation committee of the Board of Director’s, some employees are granted a restricted stock unit (RSUs) which typically vest over four years. Employees are also offered voluntary participation in an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). Workplace Diversity SolarEdge is committed to diversity in the workplace because we believe that diverse perspectives, experiences, and backgrounds enhance teamwork and innovation. Our footprint spans 26 countries and reflects various cultures, backgrounds, ages, genders and ethnicities. In addition to encouraging diversity, we actively promote a broad and inclusive culture of understanding and empowerment to ensure that we have an engaged workforce. Hiring the Future We are committed to increasing the diversity of our candidate pools around the globe, through inclusive and forward-looking hiring initiatives. We dedicate time and resources to finding and bringing on board candidates from a wide range of backgrounds. SolarEdge Workforce Chart A Culture of Inclusion In addition to promoting a diverse workforce, we want employees to know that they are respected, valued, and heard. We promote a supportive, welcoming culture of open dialogue and collaboration. Beyond adopting inclusive hiring practices, we periodically review our benefits programs to ensure we are creating a welcoming workplace. We conduct our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards of corporate leadership and citizenship and expect all employees to act in accordance with the highest standards of personal and professional integrity. An employee who becomes aware of any conduct that he or she believes may violate this Code or any applicable law is expected to promptly report it to a supervisor, manager or the General Counsel. As a Company, we prohibit any form of retaliation for raising concerns or reporting possible misconduct in good faith. No employee is subject to discrimination, harassment, or retaliation of any kind for reporting misconduct the employee believes in good faith to be in violation of this Code, any applicable policy, or applicable law. Employees are responsible for the integrity and consequences of their actions. We expect employees to strive to attain the highest level of personal performance and productivity, and to treat one another with respect and courtesy. All employees are required to deal honestly, ethically, and fairly at all times with their fellow employees, customers, suppliers, competitors, local communities, and other third parties. SolarEdge believes in achieving competitive advantages through outstanding performance, and never through unethical or illegal business practices. SolarEdge also employs a strict gift policy. Actions taken on behalf of the Company should be free from any suggestion that favorable treatment was sought by, received from, or given to individuals or organizations that do business, or seek to do business with the Company. We treat internal company and third-party confidential information with a very high degree of sensitivity. We have strict policies that require employees to use such information only for legitimate business purposes, and limit dissemination of the information (both inside and outside the Company) only to those who have a need to know the information for legitimate business purposes. SolarEdge is committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and does not tolerate any illegal discrimination, harassment, or retaliation of any kind. All employment practices and decisions, including those involving recruiting, hiring, transfers, promotions, training, compensation, benefits, discipline and termination, are conducted without regard to age, sex, race, color, ancestry, religion, creed, citizenship status, disability, national origin, marital status, military status, sexual orientation, gender identity or any other protected status or activity, and comply with all applicable laws. Occupational Safety at SolarEdge SolarEdge places high priority on the safety of employees, business partners, suppliers, customers, and society as a whole. Safety training and compliance is compulsory throughout our manufacturing facilities and offices in order to reduce the chance of injury and other occupational hazards. Safe Operations: Electrical Safety Policy SolarEdge products and facilities such as R&D centers and testing labs require the use of high voltage equipment. The Company enforces a strict Safety Policy throughout our offices and facilities where use of high voltage equipment is required. Regular electrical safety training ensures our employees and partners use the highest level of precautions when working with high voltage. Employees also attend mandatory safety drills and training related to fires, earthquakes, and other potentially disastrous scenarios. We have specific policies on: Electrical safety training Precautions when working with high voltage Safe use of equipment and infrastructure Electrical equipment setup protocols Correctly entering and exiting laboratories Safety Drills and Training Safety drills and training related to fires, earthquakes, and other potentially disastrous emergencies are held on a regular basis. It is mandatory that all members of the Company attend such training and drills in order to understand what to do in case of a real emergency. Encouraging Employees to Report Safety Violations We encourage our employees to report any safety violations immediately in order to avoid potentially dangerous situations. Should an employee have any questions or feedback about safety in the workplace, we advise them to speak directly with their supervising manager. 