Governance Responsibility From the automotive industry to electrified technology, we are known as a company to rely on. Our products are simple and innovative. They are designed to be safer, faster, and more cost-effective. And our actions are aimed to uphold and deliver on our common set of values and Code of Ethics. Through our inspired and principled approach, we are and will continue to be a leading trusted EBOS solutions partner. Business Ethics & Integrity Everyone at Shoals from our Board and our management team to our temporary and contract employees is expected to conduct themselves with the highest degree of ethics and accountability. Our Code of Ethics is our guiding policy, which applies to everyone. It details the actions, behaviors, and compliance expectations across our business activities. In addition, we have our common set of values (see Our People and Culture section). These are the guiding principles that govern all our interactions. We encourage anyone to report a suspected violation of our Code. In addition, our Whistleblower Policy addresses any auditing or financial complaints or concerns, including fraud, deliberate errors, or noncompliance. Any incident may be reported through a direct supervisor or designated executive. Each report is investigated and escalated for the appropriate internal review by the Audit Committee, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer, SVP of Human Resources, or applicable supervisor to determine the appropriate course of action. No matter the incident, we do not tolerate any acts of retaliation. Oversight is the principal responsibility of our Board. They advise and counsel our executive leadership team, who focus on Shoals’ day.to-day operations. Our independent auditor examines our financial statements. It is our internal and outside counsel who assure we are operating in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and best policies and practices. The combination of each of their actions helps ensure we are upholding the highest standards of ethics and integrity. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH Enterprise Risk Management ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL Our Board oversees an enterprise-wide approach to risk management. GOVERNANCE The program is designed to support the achievement of organizational objectives, to improve long-term organizational performance, and to OUR FUTURE enhance shareholder value. APPENDIX Fundamental to our risk management approach is the understanding of what our most significant risks are and the necessary steps to appropriately mitigate them. Our Board and its committees play an integral role in assessing this risk profile. The committees’ responsibilities include: Review of policies on risk assessment and risk management including cybersecurity and financial exposures; establishment of policies and procedures for the receipt and retention of accounting-related complaints and concerns; discussion of the scope and result of the audits with our independent registered public accounting firm. Development of board and committee membership criteria; review and monitoring of ESG; advisement on best practices and corporate governance principles. Annual review and approval of compensation-related corporate goals and objectives; establishment of overall management compensation philosophy, and policy. ESG Oversight At Shoals, we believe it is the responsibility of all of us to act in a way that protects the environment, health, and safety of our employees, customers, and local communities. Our Health, Safety, and Environmental Policy Statement encapsulates our commitment to incorporate good management processes into our business, so that we may offer pioneering electrified technology solutions that help preserve and enhance resources for future generations. Our leaders are champions of these commitments within their respective divisions, and our executive leadership sets the tone and guides our actions. At the Board-level, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for reviewing, monitoring, and providing guidance on the development and implementation of our ESG programs and goals. Board Composition Critical to the success of our Board is ensuring we have the right individuals serving as our directors. They ought to possess personal qualities and attributes deemed essential for the proper functioning of the Board and the fulfillment of duties to our shareholders. Directed by our Corporate Governance Guidelines, we seek out candidates who are accountable, ethical, have sound business judgment, and risk management experience. In their roles, they should be confident to assess and challenge the way things are done and present alternative solutions. They should be knowledgeable of our business and regulatory environment and the social realities in which we operate. We further believe that diversity, including gender, race, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, experience, and background, brings a range of viewpoints to the Board that is important to the effectiveness of its oversight responsibilities. Our directors embody these characteristics. They have a diversity of accomplishments, professional expertise, cultural backgrounds, and viewpoints. They are current and former executives or directors of public companies. Some have expertise in the energy and/or utility industry, while others have expertise in human resources management. Each offers perspectives that will contribute to the advancement of our strategic initiatives. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Corporate Governance Practices At the time of our IPO, we qualified as an emerging growth company, which permitted us to defer certain metrics on internal controls and executive-compensation related matters. However, we continued to follow many listing exchange requirements and market best practices for public companies, including: 1 Independent Chair 2 >75% Independent Directors 3 Fully Independent Committees Annual Board and Committee 4 Self-Evaluations 5 Hedging Prohibitions 6 Management Succession Planning CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Our Board Transformations During our first year as a public company, our Board experienced its own transition. In March 2021, we appointed three new directors. By July 2021, six-months following our IPO, directors Frank Cannova and Jason Lee stepped down as Oaktree director representatives, pursuant to a Stockholder Agreement. Upon their departure, our board size declined to eight, our Board’s independence increased, and it remained as such through the end of fiscal 2021. Board of Directors Brad Forth: Independent Chair Jason Whitaker: President and CEO Peter Wilver: Independent Director Ty Daul: Independent Director Toni Volpe: Independent Director Lori Sundberg: Independent Director Jeanette Mills: Independent Director Robert Julian: Independent Director In 2022, our founder and board member, Dean Solon, stepped down from the Board, which ended a life-long chapter. By August 2022, Peter Jonna, the last of the original Oaktree director appointments, left the Board and two new independent directors were appointed. 