Environmental Stewardship We are building innovative quality solutions that are safer & more reliable for an electrified future, with a laser sharp focus on solving problems that promote the adoption of solar energy & energy delivery. While Shoals and our stakeholders are intent on minimizing the impacts of climate change, we would be remiss to not also address the environmental impacts of our operations and products throughout the value chain. By removing operational and financial barriers within the solar and e-mobility industries, Shoals products help produce secondary environmental benefits. For example, our above ground solar and EV charging installation allows our systems to be deployed faster, cheaper, and with a higher degree of reliability, while also reducing the ecological impacts that result from the soil disruption caused during excavation for conventional under-ground EBOS installation. We also consider how we can best conserve natural resources and reduce waste during manufacturing and the rest of the product lifecycle. Our recognition of operational sustainability requires constant attention and continuous improvement. Applicable UN SDGs: SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Our Environmental Commitments Shoals is committed to protecting public health and the planet by working to operate in an environmentally responsible manner that is aligned with our mission. To achieve environmental excellence, we expect our employees to conduct themselves according to our guiding principles and practices: Environmental Guiding Principles and Practices Comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Continue to review and minimize the impacts of our activities. Conserve energy and other natural resources. Reduce and reuse materials and recycle waste. Minimize the generation of waste. Adopt green procurement practices. Receive environmental awareness training. We also aim to hold our contractors and others doing business at our facility to the same standards. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Enabling Greater Electrified Energy Adoption Solar energy is key to the transition to a low carbon economy, but barriers continue to hinder the widespread use of solar to power our cities, businesses, and vehicles. Shoals seeks to overcome some of the core challenges to solar and eMobility technology adoption by focusing on reliability, safety, and quality, reducing costs, and eliminating the need for skilled labor. Clean Technology American Assembly Shoals is proud to contribute to domestic manufacturing and support the federal government’s pursuit of energy independence, with multiple manufacturing facilities in the U.S. Twenty years after beginning our journey into solar, over 50 percent of current U.S. installed solar capacity2 use at least one of our EBOS products. U.S. solar projects shipped from January 2020 to the end of fiscal 2021 that use our products annually offset approximately3: 110m  56.2k  59.2k  MT CO2  MT NOx  MT SO2  6.2k  15t  MT Particulate  Gallons Water  That’s the equivalent4 of 1 year of greenhouse annual carbon sequestered gas emissions from from 23.3 million acres of 4.2m gasoline-powered U.S. forests, and passenger vehicles. 1. 2. Estimated based on 11.1 GWs of products shipped for the year ended September 30, 2021 and an estimate of 22.3 GWs of total utility scale solar installations over the same period per IHS Markit PV Installations Tracker Q4-2021, November 2021. 3. Annual offsets estimated based on the emissions avoided by generating electricity with solar PV projects with cumulative capacity equivalent to Shoals’ shipments of solar products and solutions from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021 as follows: (i) CO2, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and particulate matter from 2021 national emission factors in EPA AVERT v3.2 Avoided Emission Factors 2017–2021 (March 2022); Water withdrawals of solar PV compared to the weighted average of median natural gas and coal withdrawals per EIA 2019 data and “Operational Water Consumption and Withdrawal Factors for Electricity Generating Technologies: A Review of Existing Literature,” by Jordan Macknick et al., in Environmental Research Letters, Vol. 7, No. 4; December 20, 2012. 4. US EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX EBOS is mission critical to utility-scale solar energy installations as they harness most of the parts of a solar photovoltaic (PV) panels, inverters, and trackers. EBOS solutions interface with the solar panels, the most expensive asset in the field. They carry the electric current produced by the solar panel down the backbone of the field, or the racking, to the inverter. From there, the current ultimately reaches the power grid. A Conventional Homerun EBOS System A 100 MW solar project uses approximately 18,000 individual wires runs and 100,000 connections. PANELS PER STRINGS PER COMBINERS 2.2 MW 3024 81STRING COMBINER PER INVERTER INVERTER Conventional Homerun EBOS present three main issues: 1  Installation methods that require electrician and special tools.  2  Redundant wiring that wastes time and material.  3  Significant in-field work with limitations on quality control.  CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX The Conventional Homerun EBOS requires many time consuming, manual crimps that need to be performed in the field using licensed electricians with special tools. They also require in-array trenching of hundreds of wire runs completed manually on-site by skilled electricians, and the use of combiner boxes. This has burdened conventional systems with challenges to reliability and safety in addition to higher operations and maintenance (O&M) costs. For example, labor typically represents approximately 30 percent for solar installation spend. Additionally, existing labor scarcities for skilled electricians have posed further challenges, especially for solar projects in remote areas where utility-scale solar projects are often located. Shoal’s BLA Combine-As-You-Go System Big Lead Assembly (“BLA”) Interconnect Harness Plug-n-Play Connectors CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Simple push connectors speed Proprietary above ground feeder Pre-fabricated wire harnesses with installation, reduce errors and cable eliminates underground inline fuses eliminate measuring, make the system installable by conduits and combiner boxes and cutting and crimping in the field general labor rather than requiring Our BLA combine-as-you-go solution replaces Homerun EBOS with: 1 A system that is pre-manufactured with highly calibrated equipment. 2 A system that transmits power from the solar panel to the inverter without combiner boxes. 3 A system that is an above ground, plug-n-play solution that can be installed by general labor. Combined, these characteristics deliver social, economic, and environmental benefits: Improved safety, quality, & reliability. Factory assembly and pre-terminated connectors reduce system failures and fires from arc-faults (i.e., flow of electrical energy through an air gap), which are caused by installation errors, mechanical damage, and faulty components. Lower cost and time. Above-ground and plug-and-play design combines the functionality of cable assemblies, combiner boxes, and fusing into one system, reduces labor hours required for installation and O&M, and allows general labor to be employed instead of higher cost, high demand electrician labor. Combined with manufacturing efficiencies, it naturally increases the performance of the solar field throughout its design life with less resources required to operate and maintain the project. Less environmental and ecological impacts. Above-ground installation does not require site excavation, which impacts the local ecology by disturbing soil on large swaths of land needed for utility-scale solar. This lessens system materials – and the water, energy, waste, and emissions from the product lifecycle – by eliminating underground conduit systems that use metal and PVC pipes. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Aerial drone flyovers can quickly detect the location of faults occurring on-site due to the above-ground design resulting in less wasted labor hours and resources used for truck rolls to remote locations to solve problems that were otherwise undetectable or underground. It also allows easy portability to a new site, reducing stranded asset risks. Above-ground installation eliminates the need for excavation, reducing the associated time and costs (e.g. labor, equipment, materials) for trenching. Fewer wires and cables needed for our systems reduces material use. From our estimate there are ~48 copper cables per conductor in a conventional system compared to 2 copper cables in one set of Shoals conductors. Replacing copper with aluminum lessens the weight of our materials thereby reducing the amount of fuel used for its transport. FEWER WIRES AND CONNECTIONS = INCREASED RELIABILITY Along with the time and costs for installation and O&M, every in-field connection for a conventional Homerun EBOS is a potential point of failure – each requires a solar installer using special tools to manually implement: A 6-step process Two wire runs for every string On-site fabrication Field crimped connections Shoals’ BLA has 95 percent fewer inverter runs and 67 percent fewer string runs, resulting in 83 percent fewer connection points to install and maintain. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Our expertise in reducing costs and time for solar PV is now being applied to the electric vehicle (EV) charging market. In 2021, we launched eMobility Solutions that enable EV charge point operators to deploy systems faster, with lower cost, and higher quality as compared to conventional systems, including: • Reducing on-site labor costs by more than 40 percent, material and cable costs by 20-30 percent, and civil costs by at least 30 percent. • Reducing typical deployment times from more than six - eight weeks to a week or less. • Reducing stranded asset risk with solutions that can be easily disconnected and moved to a higher utilization site. • Increasing quality of deployment, which reduces failure of charging systems during operations, and related costs and consumer frustration. We believe our technology will allow more chargers to be deployed faster with higher quality, and may accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles. Our Customers’ Outcomes Elora, Tennessee 150 Mega-Watt, Alternating Current (MWAC) solar farm, one of the largest in the state, supplying the electric grid of the Tennessee Valley Authority, which is selling most of the output to Facebook to power a large data center located in nearby Huntsville, Alabama. East Line, Arizona 100 MWAC solar farm to connect to NextEra’s energy center, generating enough power to supply approximately 35,000 homes and displace nearly 200,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions — the equivalent of removing 41,000 cars from roadways. Harry Allen, Nevada 100 MWAC solar PV array developed by Invenergy and comprised of approximately 336,000 panels on 640 acres of land within the Dry Lake Solar Energy Zone. The project will power MGM Resorts International’s 13 properties on the Las Vegas Strip, and support the company’s 2030 emissions reduction goals. Agnew Mine, WA; Australia Australia’s largest hybrid renewable energy microgrid and the first in the country to utilize wind generation on a large scale at a mine site; comprised of wind turbines delivering 18 MW, a 4 MW solar farm, a 13 MW battery system, and an off-grid 21 MW gas/ diesel engine power plant. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Sustainable Operations Waste & Wastewater We seek to minimize and divert waste from landfills where possible by reducing, reusing, and recycling waste, including: Plastic scraps are reground and reused1 in our manufacturing process. 2 E-waste and corrugated packaging are recycled. Waste that requires special processing to reduce 3 environmental impacts is managed by sustainability focused third-party vendors. This includes: Batteries With recovery of precursor materials from lithium ion batteries, when feasible. Waste Fluids including coolant, with ethylene glycol recovered to produce antifreeze and heat transfer products, and wastewater, except from sanitation facilities, processed to generate clean water. Scrap material, including wires and metals (e.g., steel, copper) 4 are recycled by local recycling companies, when applicable. We have also replaced commonly used PVC cables with XLPE (cross.linked polyethene) cables, which not only have higher quality electrical and physical properties, but also last longer due to higher UV stabilization, reducing waste from replacement materials. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Energy We have focused our energy efficiency efforts on significant end uses of energy – lighting and HVAC systems – such as: Installing more efficient LED lighting and motion sensors at our production facilities 1 and offices to reduce energy waste. Replacing aging HVAC units with those that are Energy Star certified and have high 2 seasonal energy efficiency ratio (SEER) ratings for the level of needed BTUs, allowing us to improve energy efficiency while maintaining a comfortable temperature for our production teams. Deploying EV charging systems at our plants to encourage evolution from internal 3 combustion to EV vehicles. Funding the energy for EV charging systems, which further drives adoption of EVs 4 by our employees. Additionally, we have an initiative to utilize electric mobile equipment (e.g. forklifts, box lifts) whenever possible. Currently, most of the mobile equipment is electric within our facilities. Water We are implementing and exploring opportunities to conserve water within our operations. Already, we have deployed a closed-loop cooling system within one of our plants and are looking to expand the capabilities to other facilities. During this process, water is reused to cool parts of our injection molding machines (e.g. plastic intake throats, motors). Water withdrawals are therefore needed only to replenish small amounts of evaporation, which we estimate to be less than five gallons a week. 