Our Approach Shoals’ ESG Strategy ENVIRONMENTAL Integrating environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices is core to the way SOCIAL we operate and approach our strategic goals. Whether creating opportunities for solar GOVERNANCE energy and eMobility or building an inclusive work environment, we are rising to the OUR FUTUREchallenges of our collective environmental sustainability ambitions and the interests of the people and communities around us. APPENDIX We took a strategic approach to developing our inaugural ESG report by creating a working group that engages both internal and external resources to identify and assess the ESG factors most relevant to our business. Over the past year, we initiated a three-step approach to identify, prioritize, and verify ESG risks and opportunities specific to Shoals. This process involved the consideration of widely accepted ESG frameworks including the Value Reporting Foundation’s Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards. We applied the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) as an essential guide for our approach. We are also reviewing our environmental impacts and exploring ways to align our practices to other climate-related disclosures in the future. Following our reporting framework review, we assessed the ESG topics that were of greatest interest to our business, customers, employees, shareholders, and other key stakeholders. This involved reviewing ESG issues prioritized by our current and prospective investors and evaluating factors referenced in ESG ratings reports. In addition, we researched our peer companies to compare practices on disclosures and communication of ESG policies, principles, and practices. Based on our analysis, we identified the following as relevant ESG issues for our business and our stakeholders: • Ecological Product Impacts • Operational Sustainability / Energy Management • Responsible Product Design and Lifecycle Management • Human Capital Management • Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion • Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) • Data Privacy and Security Environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Innovative designs to help mitigate climate change. Water Recycling Withdrawals Recycling program includes Reduction substantially all waste from manufacturing inputs. Manufacturing with closed-loop cooling systems. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Alignment with the UN SDGs Our business success is intrinsically tied to how we impact all our stakeholders – customers, employees, communities, and shareholders. Our ESG working group, as well as our Board of Directors (Board) and management, believes that working to align our internal ESG framework with the UN SDGs will not only make the greatest impact on challenges facing our environment, but will also influence our efforts to promote solutions for sustainable development challenges in our society. In 2015, the United Nations adopted a total of 17 Sustainable Development Goals to drive solutions to overcome global challenges such as climate change, hunger, poverty, and gender equality, among others. As a leader in providing solar energy-focused solutions and e-mobility, we want to ensure we are contributing to lasting commitments aligned with those aims. In our inaugural report, we have identified specific UN SDGs that align directly with Shoals’ ESG strategy and the solutions we provide our customers. Shoals’ Commitments with the UN SDGs UN SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all. UN SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. UN SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. UN SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable. UN SDG 13: Climate Action Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. 