Social Commitment We have been operating in the U.S. for more than a quarter century, supporting the communities from which we have grown. We have remained adaptive, resilient, and safety-first minded, and have stayed true to our family-business roots. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Just this past year, our founder – Dean Solon – retired from Shoals. The accomplishments we achieved during his tenure were borne from the ingenuity of everyone at Shoals. We entered new markets, grew our operations, and expanded our team. As we continue to support the world’s transition to a brighter energy future, we are shining the light on ourselves to build a stronger and an ever more cohesive network where everyone may thrive. Applicable UN SDG: Our People & Culture We describe ourselves as a collection of engineers and problem solvers, solar innovators, e-mobility evangelists, curious minds, and collaborators, optimists, and advocates. At Shoals, we believe our efforts are contributing to the mitigation of climate change and making the world a better place for future generations. We strive to achieve this not only with our products and services, but through our shared common values of quality, integrity, responsiveness, respect, innovation, and sustainability. We surround ourselves with a diverse group of people who share our passion and have the knowledge and training to design and deliver innovative EBOS systems and components. Our strong research and development team has significant expertise in solar energy, electrical engineering, systems/control engineering, and power electronics. They actively collaborate with external stakeholders, including academia, national laboratories, and consultants, to further enhance our capabilities and independently verify our results. Our sales and marketing teams promote our simple, innovative solutions. Through direct engagements, independent third-party studies, thought-leadership marketing campaigns, training seminars, and industry conferences and events, they are educating industry participants on our solutions for the energy transition. Our production, safety, maintenance, and warehouse teams keep us moving forward, delivering the high-quality, reliable, and safe solutions our customers expect. Over the past few years, our teams have grown tremendously. From 2019 to 2021, we experienced 102 percent growth in our full-time employee base. By 2021 year-end, we had nearly 700 full-time and temporary employees. While on the path to becoming an industry leader, we have retained our family feel. Some of our team members have served with us from the beginning, over twenty years, and have witnessed our transformations firsthand. In June 2021, we brought on board an experienced human resources (HR) professional to serve as our Senior Vice President of HR. Under her leadership, we are embarking on our newest chapter to grow our people and culture. By focusing on the right team, technology, processes, and procedures, we are creating the next generation of Shoals built on a foundation of American manufacturing innovation and a team-oriented culture. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX 102% Growth ~ 700 Employees Shoals’ Common Values Make quality foremost in all we do, make, and sell. Maintain integrity in how we act, make decisions, and hold ourselves accountable. Be responsive to change, to each other, and to our partners, customers, and users. Be respectful in how we treat all people. Seek innovation in the way we approach challenges and build products. Be sustainable in our approach to producing products and our operations. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion We believe that an equitable and inclusive workplace reflects the diversity and values of our surrounding communities and of our customers. We strive to create a workplace where everyone is welcomed, valued, treated fairly, and respected. We believe that diversity is the range of our human differences, including but not limited to race, ethnicity, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, economic status, physical and mental ability, religious or ethical values system, national origin, and political beliefs. We consider equity and inclusion as it relates to opportunity, access, and impact supported through Shoals’ culture, products, services, and activities. We are committed to diversity and inclusion because we believe it leads to better outcomes for our business and enables us to better meet the needs of our customers. One of the ways we recognize the importance of diversity is through the leadership roles within our Company. We continue to increase our outreach, recruitment, hiring, and retention of diverse groups at all levels of our workforce and to foster equity in leadership development. We also focus on listening, learning, and responding to our employees’ concerns to help ensure that we can provide a diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace today and into the future. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Diversity by the Numbers* GENDER FEMALE MALE Executive Management Managers All Other Employees RACE & ETHNICITY OTHER RACE/ETHNICITY WHITE Executive Management Managers All Other Employees 1. * Diversity data reflective of EEO-1 Report data as of October 2021 and reflect our full-time employee base, which consist of 400 individuals. Executives include 11 members of our leadership team and Managers consist of 31 individuals with management responsibilities. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Human Capital Management Shoals’ people journey is just getting started. The same passion and creativity we bring to our products and manufacturing are being directed to the growth and development of our team members. Prior to becoming a publicly traded company, our HR department was primarily administrative in nature. Now, we are evolving our HR role to be a strategic business partner, one that not only serves as a resource for our people, but also supports the growth of their talents and the growth of Shoals. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Recruitment We continuously strive to be an employer of choice in our surrounding areas by identifying and recruiting the best talent available. As a company in a high-growth phase, we are taking deliberate actions to attract people with the right skill set and cultural fit. We seek talent that is entrepreneurial and agile, experienced and technical, process-oriented and flexible, adaptive and honest, optimistic and enthusiastic. We continue to develop our talent acquisition strategy and build a successful pipeline of candidates by fostering a work environment where Shoals is viewed as a destination employer. We often compete with several other manufacturing and agricultural employers for our non-exempt workforce in our rural locations. To address this challenge, we encourage our current employees to recommend potential candidates through our employee referral program. We have also established strategic partnerships with local staffing resources. They help to identify talent who may supplement our workforce during increases in production and to assist with the screening of potential full-time employees. As part of our HR strategy, we are prioritizing full-time talent acquisition and the development of retention-building opportunities. Talent Development We recognize the benefits that training and career planning can have on building and growing our workforce. Throughout our history and now, we seek to promote from within Shoals, while at the same time expanding our capabilities by hiring externally. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Once at Shoals, we encourage our employees to participate in continuing education and to pursue professional certifications. For certain roles, we provide the required or necessary training and certifications. We also provide opportunities for job-specific training to new and seasoned employees. We believe that performance management and leadership skills training are key components for personal career growth. Among our employees, we encourage continuous guidance and feedback with their leaders. We believe it is the responsibility of every person in leadership – be it a Team Lead, Supervisor, or Manager – to serve as a resource and support for each of our team members. In everything we do, our philosophy is to promote an open environment. As part of our HR strategy, we plan to cascade our performance management framework from our executive team to our mid-level managers and to train them on its implementation as we proceed to roll it out companywide. Employee Engagement We believe that candor among our employees helps us to succeed and drives operational excellence. Our family feel and open environment provide the space for team members to express themselves and share their thoughts and perspectives. In 2023, we intend to expand our feedback opportunities with the launch of an employee engagement survey, the first since becoming a public company. Compensation & Benefits At Shoals, we strive to provide our team members with a comprehensive suite of rewards and benefits. Over the past year, we enhanced our compensation programs throughout Shoals. In our Tennessee locations, we integrated a two-dollar an hour COVID-19 premium into our base hourly rate and included an additional one-dollar increase in 2021. By 2022, we raised our hourly rate by an additional two dollars, accounting for a five dollar increase within the year for our Tennessee employees. In 2021, all employees benefited from the Company’s public listing. Each of them received restricted stock units, which gave them an opportunity to become owners in the Company (once vested). Our benefits program is designed to provide coverage for our employees’ overall health and wellbeing. They include medical and dental coverage, life, and disability insurance. We also offer retirement saving plans through our 401(k), which is available to all our full-time employees. In 2021, we expanded the benefit with the inclusion of a company matching contribution. Occupational Health & Safety Safety is at the forefront of everything we do. It is the guiding principle in our product development and a constant focus for our people. Our occupational health and safety (OHS) program is designed to achieve safe outcomes. It is built on a commitment to provide a workplace where the risks of illness or injury to our workers, local community, and customers are minimized. Increasingly, our safety program is aligning with the ISO 45001 standards, for which we seek to pursue certification once our management system is fully developed. By relying on the contributions of everyone at Shoals, we have devised programs, including safety initiatives and evaluations, that increase our awareness, improve our ability to act on the effectiveness of the program, and encourage constant review and improvement. Shoals’ OHS Guiding Principles Maintain or surpass all pertinent health, safety, and environmental obligations through recurring metric reviews. Strengthen and encourage strong principles and responsible workplace policies that enhance health, safety, and environmental integrity. Encourage the implementation of sensible health, safety, and environmental standards of contractors, vendors, and suppliers on Shoals properties. Convey health, safety, and environmental strategies and systems to Shoals employees and shareholders . Operate in a manner that strengthens safety, promotes energy efficiency, and helps protect the environment. Make certain that all employees are conscious of their responsibility and obligation to achieve and maintain Shoals’ health, safety, and environmental management systems and policy. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Incident Prevention Over the years, we have elevated hazard identification to the forefront of our safety program. By doing so, we are proactively identifying sources or situations that have the potential to cause the most harm. These include: Day-to-day human Machine injury Chemical hazards error injuries during operation With knowledge of our hazard sources, engagement from each of our team members, and a commitment from management to implement and reinforce our OHS guiding principles, we are delivering our safety-first approach. The critical points within our operational processes are of the greatest concern. We aim to reduce incidents and injuries by safeguarding our machines and protecting against preventable events. To reduce and avoid incidents, we deploy a series of safety management procedures and programs, which address proactive, responsive, and preventative improvement processes. These include: Engineering-out causes of injury during the machining 1 process by adding a safety layer to eliminate the contributor. Adding sizing controls to reduce and prevent 2 finger pinch-points. Monitoring our employees that operate the machines3 through a preventative maintenance tracker and deploying a trend analysis tool for reporting. We encourage our employees to activate our Stop Work Authority when there is a perceived unsafe condition or behavior that may result in an undesirable event. In addition, we use PPE hazard assessments, preventative maintenance, audits, and inspections to further curtail any occurrence of a health or safety incident. We reinforce these safety behaviors through the application of our policies and regulatory frameworks and the actions of our leadership. Through our Safety Discipline Policy and our Employee Safety Warning Notice, we have developed procedures designed to provide a structured corrective action process to improve and prevent recurring undesirable employee safety behaviors or issues. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX OHS Oversight Our Health and Safety Team is the primary unit in our organization that oversees, maintains, and improves OHS. The team meets on a weekly basis to discuss safety, maintenance, and the overall health of our employees as well as improvement measures to upgrade or correct machinery and other building securities. Shoals’ Health & Safety Leadership FACILITIES, MAINTENANCE, HSSE MANAGER SECURITY & HSSE SAFETY ENVIRONMENTAL ASSISTANT MANAGER CLERK CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Furthermore, due to the regulated nature of our industry, we are required by law to perform audits of our health and safety procedures, policies, and programs. When incidents occur, all reports are treated with urgency. Our policy requires that any machine that has caused harm is shut down immediately and insights be delivered from inspections, repairs, and cleaning with a single head of oversight to ensure improvements are handled correctly and efficiently. Our primary goal is for all employees to have the proper training and awareness of the health and safety policies in place. New hires are provided health and safety training during orientation on the tools and resources to maintain safety throughout their day-to-day as well as evacuations and other emergency procedures. Refresher training sessions are conducted annually and typically coincide with any new training programs. To that end, we launched an individual incentive program in 2022 designed for workers to receive benefits as they bring awareness to any outstanding hazards that may have otherwise gone unaddressed. Rewards are provided through Shoals’ “incentive bucks” that can be used to purchase prizes from our on-site store. We also celebrate Safety Mondays where coffee is provided by the Health and Safety team. In addition, if no recordable injuries are incurred before the month of June each year, a free lunch is provided to everyone. Total Recordable Incidence Rate* EMPLOYEE TRIR COMBINED TRIR TEMPORARY TRIR 2019 2020 2021 1. * Data provided in the chart reflects TRIR stats for Shoals’ full-time and temporary employees for fiscal year 2021, with the exclusion of ConnectPV which was acquired in August 2021. CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Data Privacy & Security We strive to create a robust ecosystem that protects any information we hold, especially sensitive content such as our intellectual property. At the same time, we aim to be flexible so that good data can drive good decisions. Our approach to data privacy and security focuses on finding the balance between data access and security. This involves protections against both internal and external exposure events, permissions on content access and use, and upgrades to security perimeters and resiliency, among other measures. To protect the privacy and security of our data, we have active monitoring and logging systems, IT business continuity plans, antivirus software, and multifactor authentication. We conduct periodic penetration testing and performance audits. In addition, we assess our critical systems infrastructure to identify more resilient and redundant practices to ensure continuous operation. Our data privacy and security program is overseen by our Chief Operating Officer and a team of information technology experts. They report directly to our Chief Executive Officer and provide periodic updates to our Board’s Audit Committee. The effectiveness of our systems is dependent on the people who use them. We educate our employees on best practices through awareness campaigns and phishing exercises. Intellectual Property Protections CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX One of our primary security considerations is our intellectual property. We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets to protect our innovative technology. Ensuring we have a robust IT system is a critical feature to safeguarding our proprietary know-how. As of January 31, 2022 As of January 31, 2022 U.S. Trademark Issued U.S. Trademark Issued25 20Registrations Patents 30 33Registrations Patents Pending Pending Pending Pending 11 12U.S. Trademark U.S. Patent 29 7U.S. Trademark U.S. Patent Applications Applications Applications Applications Community Engagement & Giving Shoals serves and participates in the same communities where we live and work. Through active memberships, contributions, and collaborations, Shoals engages in community service and outreach. Whether it’s giving opportunities to those most in need, providing funding or resources to those less fortunate, or building partnerships with local businesses and charities, Shoals is committed to helping our neighbors flourish. Some of the charities and organizations we support through donations include: CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX American Heart Association Hands of Hope Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Make a Wish Moss Foundation Nashville Rescue Missions Navy Seal Foundation Portland Chamber of Commerce Portland Preservation Society Portland Public Schools Second Harvest Food Bank St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital Wounded Warrior Project ZOE for Life! 