To our stakeholders, I am extremely proud to introduce Shoals Technologies Group’s inaugural Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) report. This report marks our first year as a public company, following our IPO on January 27, 2021. Since our founding in 1996, Shoals has had an unwavering commitment to quality, reliability, and safety in the products we develop and deliver for our customers. As a tier-1 supplier to the solar, energy storage, and eMobility sectors, our commitment to sustainability and responsible business practices is foundational to our Company. This year marks the first time we have considered the rigors of the Sustainable Accounting Standard Board (SASB) Standards and the specific lens of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) to analyze our ESG approach, setting a first benchmark for our Company. We are proud of our initial ESG accomplishments and are excited to share them with you. We also expect our ESG performance to get even better in the coming years, as we continue to operate our business with a critical eye to these ESG metrics. We invite you to learn more about our Company and our approach to sustainability in the following pages. Lastly, I wish to express my gratitude to our employees, customers, partners, shareholders, and other stakeholders for their ongoing support. Sincerely, CEO LETTER Who We Are Shoals Technologies Group, Inc. & its subsidiaries (Shoals or the Company) are a collection of engineers & solar evangelists, curious minds & collaborators, optimists & advocates of sunnier days. In equal measures, we challenge and support each other to design, develop, and deliver solutions that have the potential to change the world. Our Mission  Our Vision  Develop innovative solutions that make  Continually drive to create a brighter  electrical balance of systems (EBOS)  future for our clients, our team,  installation simpler, faster, safer, and more  and the wider world of possibilities.  reliable to reduce the Levelized Cost of  Pursue simple ideas with a  Energy (LCOE).  determination to make solar, storage,  and electric vehicle (EV) charging a  more affordable and viable choice for  people and communities everywhere.  Plants2021 HIGHLIGHTS 4 20 Years of EmployeesExperienceCumulative Issued Patents Gigawatt Under Contract We are the leading EBOS provider for solar, Shoals is Inventing Simple®. energy storage, and eMobility. Our History 1996 Founded as an automotive industry component supplier. From our early days meeting the exacting standards of the automotive industry, we developed a laser focus on quality and reliable processes. 2002 Pivoted to the nascent solar industry as a component supplier and expanded into cable harnesses for solar engineering procurement and construction (EPC) firms. In a new market, our safer, faster, more reliable, and cost-effective patented technologies raised our stature to one of the leading suppliers of American-made EBOS solutions. 2021 Became an internationally operating public company with new value propositions in energy storage and EV charging infrastructure. With a bright future ahead, we are delivering pioneering solutions that support the environment and sustainability. OUR PASSION IGNITES CREATIVITY, OUR CREATIVITY DEMANDS RELIABILITY, AND OUR RELIABILITY DELIVERS THE ABSOLUTE BEST PRODUCTS ON THE GLOBE. DEAN SOLON, SHOALS FOUNDER CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE APPENDIX Our Products Our wide range of industry-leading solar products are helping to efficiently harness the power of the sun. Interconnect Combiner Box System® Battery Combiner Fuse Cabinets Isolation Cabinets Reverse Current Protection Mitigation Auxiliary Power Cabinets Power Center Raceways EV-BLA Quick Connect Bases CEO LETTER WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE OUR FUTURE Big Lead Assembly APPENDIX Balance on Service & Design Tracker® We offer custom energy storage solutions to fit a variety of needs. Distributed energy storage needs safe, reliable, and easily installed EBOS solutions. The Solutions must cost-effectively and quickly couple to utility scale solar, EV charging sites, and the existing electricity grid. To meet ambitious EV deployment goals, charge point operators need to speed deployment while simultaneously reducing costs. Our electric vehicle charging balance of system (EV BOS) are easily installed and portable for wide application. Our Impact 40%+ 20-30% 30% 1 Reduction of On-site Labor Costs Decreased Material & Cable Cost Reduced Civil Costs in All Target Markets Week or less for eMobility deployments which minimizes site disruption 