Our Sustainability Focus The energy industry is changing, and Schlumberger’s vision is to define and drive high performance, sustainably. Our core competence is to enable our customers to operate safely, efficiently, effectively, and in an environmentally responsible manner. Our Global Stewardship program addresses: .» identifying and managing opportunities and risks associated with the energy transition and climate change .» protecting the environment .» investing in and engaging with the communities where we and our customers live and work .» respecting human rights and promoting diversity 2019 Global Stewardship Report Message from the CEO Schlumberger’s vision is to define and drive high performance, sustainably. We are focused on our purpose: creating amazing technology that unlocks access to energy, for the benefit of all. Schlumberger is committed to being at the forefront of our industry’s shift toward more sustainable energy production—challenging not only ourselves, but also our customers, suppliers, and peers to partner on delivering measurable social and environmental progress. We are uniquely positioned to impact both our own environmental and social footprint and to help our customers reach their goals. Our corporate purpose reiterates our commitment to being a more sustainable industry partner. The health and safety of our people, customers, contractors, and surrounding communities have always been a top priority in Schlumberger, and this has been in sharper focus during the recent pandemic. I am very proud of the example the people of Schlumberger have set by responding with resilience and generosity, and for safely continuing to deliver high performance for customers and making meaningful contributions to the health of our communities. In 2019, we achieved the lowest total recordable injury frequency and automotive accident rate Schlumberger has ever recorded. In this context, you can see our culture of stewardship grows from one of our long-established values— people. Exceptional people join us from around the world because of who we are—and then they make us what we are. Schlumberger seeks to continually increase diversity and promote inclusion in our workforce, supply chains, and communities where we work and live. We believe caring for people and communities is fundamental to drive better performance for all our stakeholders; this is why sustainability is at the core of everything we do. Recent events have increased the sense of urgency and reinforced our commitment to industry-wide sustainability. Indeed, companies across all industries are being challenged to innovate and create more value while strengthening positive environmental and social performance. I personally accept this challenge and commit to added accountability, transparency, and stakeholder engagement across our ESG strategic elements. We believe good stewardship starts with committing to change, and accountability starts with setting key corporate goals and targets with the right governance in place to ensure we make progress. Two of our stewardship ambitions for 2025 are a salaried workforce comprising 25% women and a reduction of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30%. My global management teams and I share both these goals in key objectives that are tied to annual compensation. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals continue to serve as a primary framework for translating our corporate priorities into locally relevant social and environmental programs. Our focus on addressing climate change aligns to recommendations made by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) —efforts we proudly support. Additionally, we view the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) metrics as relevant to our management of both financial and non-financial risks related to ESG performance. Our commitment to transparency on key ESG priorities will strengthen our contributions to sustainable change beyond our own environmental footprint. We are proud that in 2019, our company became the first in upstream exploration and production services to commit to setting a Science Based Targets initiative to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This is significant, because it challenges us with targets verified by the Science Based Targets initiative, not only to reduce our fuel and power consumption, but to also work with our suppliers and customers to reduce their consumption. We will set our reduction target, in line with SBTi’s defined criteria, by 2021. Through strong collaboration with our business partners across our industry, we are committed to making measurable progress in addressing climate change. These efforts will be in and beyond oil and gas, strengthening our commitment to provide customers with innovative energy technologies. I am proud of the achievements we have made in 2019 to advance sustainability. I would like to thank our employees, customers, suppliers, and partners for their dedication and support in delivering the results in this report. Our industry has an important role to play in the future of energy, and Schlumberger is evolving for that exciting future. We continue to build the Schlumberger of tomorrow to define and drive high performance, sustainably. Olivier Le Peuch Chief Executive Officer 2019 Global Stewardship Report 2019 Revenue Contribution culture, gender, and age—stimulates creativity and innovation, helping us maintain our competitive edge. Moreover, our diverse workforce is better able to understand, respond to, and deliver services and products that meet the unique expectations and requirements of our stakeholders, including our customers, suppliers, and stockholders. Learn more about the Schlumberger commitment to Global Stewardship: www.slb.com/globalstewardship Governance and Ethics Schlumberger is committed to excellence in everything we do, and we strive to maintain the trust and confidence of our customers and stockholders as well as other stakeholders affected by our operations. Our commitment to sound principles of corporate governance and ethics sets the foundation of our Global Stewardship program. We aim to operate in a consistent and transparent way. Our reputation for integrity and fair dealing is vitally important in winning and retaining the trust of our stakeholders. When we are clearly seen to behave in an ethical manner, we enhance our reputation for integrity, which helps us attract and retain customers and employees. Corporate Governance Board of Directors The Schlumberger Board of Directors (Board) consists of nine members, including an independent Chairman of the Board, six additional independent directors, and one executive director. Our director independence standards meet or exceed the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The Nominating and Governance Committee (N&G Committee) of the Board oversees our Global Stewardship programs and activities. As Schlumberger’s primary governing body with oversight over climate-related risks and opportunities, the N&G Committee receives quarterly updates on the progress Schlumberger is making toward a low-carbon future. In addition, the full Board is actively involved in overseeing risk management for the Company, including material risks relating to climate change. The N&G Committee of the Board also evaluates the suitability of potential nominees for Board membership and makes recommendations to the full Board. The N&G Committee takes into consideration the Board’s current composition and mix of appropriate expertise, and promotes Schlumberger’s diversity policy that the Board should ensure that qualified candidates reflecting the gender, cultural, and geographical diversity of the Company are considered as potential nominees. The N&G Committee’s evaluation of director nominees takes into account their ability to contribute to the Board’s diversity, and the N&G Committee annually reviews its effectiveness in balancing these considerations when considering director nominees. Structure The Board recognizes that one of its key responsibilities is to evaluate and determine an appropriate board leadership structure to provide for independent oversight of management. The Board believes that there is no single, generally accepted board leadership structure that is appropriate for all companies, and that the right structure may vary for a single company as circumstances change. As such, our independent directors consider the Board’s leadership structure at least annually. Most recently, the independent members of the Board determined that appointing an independent, non-executive Chairman of the Board was an appropriate Board leadership structure at this time because it allows our CEO to focus on leading the Company’s complex international business operations, while providing the Board experienced and independent leadership. Mr. Mark G. Papa currently serves as our independent Chairman of the Board. The independent directors of the Board may, at their discretion, determine to combine the CEO and Chairman roles in the future if they deem such action appropriate. Diversity With approximately 82,000 employees who represent over 170 nationalities, Schlumberger and our Board of Directors value gender, cultural, and geographic diversity. Two of our nine directors are women. Among our directors, three are citizens of the United States, three are citizens of France, one is a citizen of Saudi Arabia, one is a dual citizen of both Russia and Israel, and one is a dual citizen of both Argentina and the United Kingdom. Our geographically diverse Board also evidences the Board’s commitment to have directors who represent countries where Schlumberger operates. In addition, the exceptionally broad and diverse experience of our Board is in keeping with the goal of having directors whose background and experience complement those of other directors. Board Committees The Schlumberger Board of Directors maintains five committees. The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the accounting and financial reporting processes of the Company, including the audit of the Company’s financial statements and the integrity of the Company’s financial statements, legal and regulatory compliance, the independent auditor’s qualifications, independence and performance, and the performance of the Company’s internal audit function. The Compensation Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities regarding executive compensation. The Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board in identifying qualified individuals to become directors, reviews corporate governance Diversified Director Tenure 3 >1 Year 3 6+ Years 3 2–5 Years Board of Directors » Patrick de La Chevardière » Mark G. Papa » Miguel M. Galuccio » Leo Rafael Reif » Olivier Le Peuch » Henri Seydoux » Tatiana A. Mitrova » Jeff W. Sheets » Lubna S. Olayan trends, monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Company’s Ethics and Compliance Program, oversees the Company’s corporate reputation, ESG and social responsibility strategies, and oversees an annual review of the Board’s performance. The Finance Committee advises the Board and management of the Company on various capital allocation and capital structure matters. The Science and Technology Committee advises the Board and management on matters involving the Company’s research and development programs. Only independent directors serve on our Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees. Managing Corporate Risk The Board also manages risk in part through its oversight of the Company’s Executive Risk Committee (the ERC). The ERC is not a committee of the Board; rather, it comprises top Company executives from various functions, including the Vice President of Global Stewardship, each of whom supervises day-to-day risk management throughout the Company. The ERC’s purpose is to identify those risks that have the potential to significantly affect our business over the short-, medium- and longer terms—and therefore to impact our strategic objective—and to implement appropriate mitigation measures. In 2019, more than half of the key corporate risks identified in our risk mapping process related to environmental, social or governance matters. The Company’s risk identification is performed annually at two levels. The ERC performs a corporate-level risk mapping exercise, which involves the CEO and several other members of senior management, and while maintaining oversight, delegates operational (field-level) risk assessment and management to the Company’s various geographies, businesses and functions. To the extent that the ERC identifies recurring themes from the operational risk mapping exercises, they are acted on at the corporate level. Members of the ERC meet formally at least once a year, and more frequently on an ad hoc basis, to define and improve the risk mapping process, and to review and monitor the results of those exercises and those that have been delegated. The ERC reports directly to our CEO and to the Board, and annually presents to the Board a comprehensive report as to its risk mapping efforts for that year. The Board and management recognize that climate risk is a key area of focus among our stakeholders, and the Company has, in line with this risk, committed to reducing our carbon emissions, as discussed in detail in this report. We are also in the process of implementing efficiency measures focused on fuel consumption and energy consumption across our global operations and facilities. Among the key environmental- and climate-change risks monitored as part of our risk mapping process were: » environmental impacts resulting from process safety incidents, » country-specific legislation and regulations, » environmental compliance, » financial risk associated with climate change, » perception of industry due to climate change dialogue, and » extreme weather. In 2019, we complemented our well-established risk assessment program with a comprehensive climate risk assessment in Norway—a country that is representative of our operational activities. This project adopted the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations related to the identification of opportunities and risks—both financial and physical—associated with climate change, including conducting scenario-based analyses in accordance with the U.N. Paris Agreement. After a detailed evaluation of our operations in Norway, we identified both acute and chronic physical climate risks, as well as potential risks and opportunities associated with the energy transition. Findings from this project were communicated to Schlumberger management and our Board and are further shaping our internal climate strategy. For example, after identifying some mid-term flooding risks identified in Norway, we launched a global sea-level rise assessment, which we expect to complete in 2020. We have expanded our climate assessment project and, as of September 2020, our operations in countries representing over 50% of our total 2019 revenue are participating in the program. For additional details, please see the Environmental and Climate section of this report titled “Managing Environmental Risk” on page 12. Communication with the Board The Schlumberger Board of Directors and individual members can be contacted by writing to our Corporate Secretary at the following address: Schlumberger Limited Attention: Corporate Secretary 5599 San Felipe, 17th Floor Houston, Texas 77056 Executive Compensation Our compensation program is designed so that the higher an executive’s position in the Company, the greater the percentage of compensation that is contingent on our financial performance, long-term stock price perfor.mance and individual performance—described as “at-risk” compensation. The Company believes that having a significant portion of our executives’ compensation at risk more closely aligns their interests with our long-term interests and those of our stockholders. Accordingly, our executive officers receive a greater percentage of their compensation through at-risk pay tied to Company performance than other members of our senior management. Some of the Company’s sustainability goals, as discussed in the “Key ESG Priorities and Accountability” section of this report, are reflected in the 2020 short-term cash incentive compensation opportunity for our CEO and other members of our senior management. Specifically, a portion of that compensation opportunity will be based on achieving our annual internal objectives relating to emissions reductions and gender balance. A more detailed discussion of our executive compensation program is available in our 2020 proxy statement beginning on page 25 under the caption “Compensation Discussion and Analysis.” In setting our executives’ compensation, we believe the following: » The pay of our senior executives should be strongly linked to performance that is evaluated against financial, strategic, operational, and personal objectives. » Our compensation program should enable us to recruit, develop, motivate, and retain top global talent, both in the short-term and long-term, by providing compensation that is competitive and by promoting the Company’s values of people, technology and profit. » Long-term incentive equity awards should encourage the creation of long-term stockholder value, align our executives’ compensation with our stockholder returns, and incentivize our executives to achieve difficult but attainable strategic and financial goals that support our long-term performance and leadership position in our industry. » Through our executive stock ownership guidelines, our executives should be required to hold stock acquired through equity-based awards, thereby aligning their interests with those of our other stockholders. » Diversity of our workforce is both a very important part of our cultural philosophy and a business imperative, as it better enables us to serve clients anywhere in the world. Key ESG Priorities and Accountability Schlumberger is committed to driving positive Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) change, both within the Company and across the energy industry. In 2019, the Schlumberger Board of Directors approved the Company’s key corporate ESG goals, which include the achievement of the following by 2025: » Reduction in carbon emissions by 30%. » Gender balance of 25% women in salaried workforce. » Zero company-involved fatalities. We also further defined our Global Stewardship priorities this year by grouping them into nine key categories of programs and initiatives. ENVIRONMENTAL » Reducing our footprint » Addressing climate change » Helping our customers reduce their footprint SOCIAL » Human rights, diversity and inclusion » Keeping people safe » Community and in-country value GOVERNANCE » Risk, monitoring and accountability » External ESG engagement » ESG reporting and communication Schlumberger’s key ESG priorities were identified in consultation with our stakeholders and are based on an internal assessment of risk, applicability, and potential degree of impact. In 2019, Schlumberger became the first company in upstream E&P services to commit to setting a science-based target in emissions reduction— aligning with and in support of the Paris Agreement. We also continued our five-year initiative to map Schlumberger’s impact activities and opportunities to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) framework. In 2019, we held workshops in key geographic locations, in order to identify the SDGs where we could have the greatest impact based on country-specific operations and local needs. These regional workshops built upon the corporate-level SDG analysis that we completed in 2018, in which we evaluated all 169 underlying targets of the 17 SDGs and selected the 11 SDGs through which Schlumberger can achieve the greatest positive impact while creating commercial value. Local prioritization of the SDGs in 2019 has allowed our in-country teams to concentrate on environmental and social initiatives in the communities where we live and work, facilitating those communities in achieving targets associated with the SDGs. Schlumberger also monitors government regulatory and policy changes that address environmental and social factors affecting the industry, both internally and through trade associations, regulatory subscription services, and additional third-party policy expertise. We evaluate regulatory and policy changes to determine their potential impacts to our business operations and to identify opportunities to further enhance our approach to sustainability. Independent Audit PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) auditors reviewed our processes and procedures for 2019 and verified a selected subset of our 2019 data. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are, in all material respects, fairly presented and in accordance with Schlumberger procedural guidelines. Environmental data audited for 2019 includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, waste production, water consumption, spill, and energy consumption. Health and safety data audited for 2019 includes the number of fatalities, employee and contractor lost-time injuries and illnesses, and the associated work hours to determine frequencies and rates. PwC performed this work in accordance with their professional standards and with ISAE 3000 (assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information). 2019 Global Stewardship Report Our Mindset Our Mindset summarizes the behavior expected of every Schlumberger team member, including attitude, words and actions, as we interact with each other and with our external stakeholders. Commitment Understand and support the direction ahead. Make a difference. » Service focus » Continuous improvement » Self development Drive Take action and have a positive impact on performance. Achieve excellence. » Creativity » Initiative » Adaptability » Results focus Integrity Recognize the boundaries and have the courage to act honestly and responsibly. Do the right thing. » Decision making » Responsibility Teamwork Trust others to do their part and work together toward common goals. Help the team succeed. » Collaboration » Communication » Coaching and mentoring » Diversity Ethics and Compliance Schlumberger strives to maintain and grow the trust and confidence of our customers and stockholders, as well as all others affected by our operations. When we are clearly seen to behave in an ethical manner, we enhance our reputation as a partner, an employer and a community member. We believe that to succeed, we must draw on the foundations that preserve our identity and establish the direction we must follow. This means understanding what defines us as a company, recognizing how we behave toward others, and defining how we approach our work. The Blue Print documents—Our Identity and Our Code of Conduct—are designed to help our workforce accomplish this. The Blue Print–Our Identity summarizes our Purpose, Ambitions and Values, expressing the mindset we need to succeed. The Blue Print in Action– Our Code of Conduct applies to all Schlumberger directors, officers, employees, security providers, and contractors. It is designed to help every employee and contractor handle business situations professionally and fairly. Our Code of Conduct also explains how individual actions reflect on the Company and how the Company is, therefore, the sum of our actions. In addition, Ethics and Compliance (E&C) training throughout an employee’s career at Schlumberger focuses on the E&C risks they might encounter during their various roles. Members of our workforce, including employees and full-time, part-time and contract workers, are required to complete E&C training on at least an annual basis, or more frequently as their careers progress. Schlumberger E&C training includes annually reviewing our Code of Conduct and anticorruption materials and providing related certifications. We periodically review and adjust the E&C training program so that our team members continue to receive appropriate and up-to-date E&C guidance. We seek to verify adherence to our Code of Conduct through, among other things, annual E&C risk assessments, compliance-focused audits led by our global internal audit department, and local legal resources and financial controllers in the regions where we operate.  Business Ethics Acting ethically involves more than simply complying with laws and regulations. It involves recognition that our decisions affect others. By keeping this in mind, we earn the respect, trust, and confidence of our stakeholders. By doing things right the first time, every time, we enhance our reputation for integrity with these stakeholders (Code of Conduct, p. 11). Anticorruption Schlumberger’s anticorruption policy, as outlined in our Code of Conduct, applies to all of our operating locations and geographies and extends to our employees, contractors, suppliers and agents. Our Ethics & Compliance function manages enforcement of the policy, with oversight from the Schlumberger Board of Directors. We review our anticorruption policy at least annually. Our Ethics & Compliance function comprises a headquarter VP and dedicated E&C staff in all geographies where we operate, for a cohesive approach to mitigating corruption risk. Our E&C team utilizes training, communications, audits, and risk management tools, in order to effectively implement our anticorruption program in the countries where we operate. The E&C team shares best practices and real-time anticorruption informa.tion by leveraging our ERP system, which automatically generates red flags specific to anticorruption risks. Schlumberger seeks to identify and timely remediate any anticorruption policy deviations. Schlumberger also has a grievance reporting process as outlined in our Code of Conduct and in our Human Rights position statement. Grievance reporting mechanisms include our online QUEST Event Report system and an EthicsLine phone reporting system. Our Ethics & Compliance function investigates any corruption allegations, and following any such investigation, corrective measures and/or disciplinary actions are taken, as appropriate. Additionally, lessons learned are identified from each investigation and are communicated within the Company.  Revenue generated from the 20 countries identified by Transparency International as having the lowest rankings in its 2019 Corruption Perception Index represented (on a combined basis) less than 5% of Schlumberger’s consolidated worldwide 2019 revenue. Supply Chain Management Schlumberger maintains zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, and we expect the same from our contractors, suppliers and agents. We require that they comply with the laws of the countries in which they operate, and that they act in a socially responsible and ethical manner consistent with our Code of Conduct. All suppliers, contractors, and agents must be approved and managed in accordance with internal requirements. We also conduct audits to promote compliance with these requirements. Finally, we support responsible sourcing of materials from suppliers that share our values, and we commit to avoid using conflict minerals in our sourcing activities (Code of Conduct, p. 12). Employee Whistleblower Protection Employees who believe that a violation of our Code of Conduct has occurred are required to report their concerns internally, using any available channel of communication (including reporting to their manager, to another manager in the personnel, legal, finance, E&C or other appropriate function, or via our online QUEST Event Report system, or by calling the EthicsLine). Schlumberger prohibits retaliation for good faith reporting of known and suspected violations of our Code of Conduct, our internal requirements, and applicable laws. However, any employee who intentionally reports false information will be subject to disciplinary action (Code of Conduct, pp. 1 and 12). Conflicts of Interest Conflicts between personal interests and the interests of Schlumberger or its customers may arise if an employee has personal, social, financial, political, or other interests that could interfere with his or her responsibilities as a Schlumberger employee. To avoid such conflicts of interest, employees are prohibited from holding financial stakes in companies that do business with Schlumberger. We require that they put Schlumberger business interests first, disclose all potential conflicts of interest, and avoid situations that create the appearance of a conflict of interest. If such a conflict exists, the affected employee is required to obtain written approval from an appropriate Schlumberger controller before continuing to work (Code of Conduct, p. 16). Stock Transactions Our Insider Trading Standard prohibits employees from releasing material, nonpublic information about Schlumberger such as unannounced marketing plans, new product releases, financial results, changes in dividends or earnings, planned mergers or acquisitions, and business strategies. Employees are required to keep such information confidential and may not buy or sell Schlumberger stock or publicly traded options of Schlumberger stock until the information becomes public. Nor may they buy or sell stocks and options of other companies with which Schlumberger does business if in possession of material, nonpublic information about such other companies (Code of Conduct, p. 17). Gifts and Entertainment Our Code of Conduct prohibits offering or accepting items or benefits worth more than a nominal value for which the recipient does not pay fair market value, including meals, entertainment, or tickets to sporting events, to or from any individual or organization that does or seeks to do business with Schlumberger. This is because accepting or giving business gifts or hospitality must never suggest an ability to influence Schlumberger business decisions (Code of Conduct, p. 19). Antibribery Schlumberger does not obtain a business advantage through bribery, improper payments or any other illegal means. Our Code of Conduct prohibits all employees and contractors from offering, paying, soliciting, or accepting bribes in any form or under any circumstance, including facilitation payments. In addition, payments to government officials are forbidden (Code of Conduct, p. 23). Fair and Ethical Business Practices Schlumberger competes aggressively, but fairly. We do not win business or maintain customer relationships by acting illegally or unethically. We do not enter into agreements that can restrict full and fair competition. Nor do we share pricing or bidding information with competitors or anyone outside the Company. No Lobbying or Political Contributions Schlumberger is politically neutral and has a long-standing policy (set forth in our Code of Conduct) against lobbying or making financial or in-kind contributions to political parties or candidates, even when permitted by law. Our policy prohibits the use of Company funds or assets for political purposes, including for contributions to any political party, candidate or committee, whether Federal, state or local. In addition, the Company does not lobby. As a result of the Company’s policy of political neutrality, Schlumberger does not maintain a political action committee (PAC), nor does it contribute to any third-party PACs or other political entities organized under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code of Conduct, p. 23 and p. 26, and Political Contributions). In 2019, the Center for Political Accountability, a non-profit, non-partisan orga.nization, assessed our disclosure for its annual CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability. The CPA-Zicklin Index measures the transparency, policies and practices of the Standard & Poor’s 500. As a result of our enhanced disclosure regarding our prohibition on political lobbying and con.tributions, we achieved a perfect score of 100% in the 2019 CPA-Zicklin Index. Like other major companies, Schlumberger belongs to trade and industry associations in the United States to which Schlumberger pays annual dues. Schlumberger joins such associations when they add value to the Company, its stockholders and its employees. The Company’s policy restricts such trade and industry associations from using Schlumberger funds to directly or indirectly engage in lobbying or political expenditures. To help ensure that these associations do not use any portion of the dues or other funds paid by Schlumberger for lobbying or political contributions, Schlumberger periodically informs them of our policy prohibiting any such use of Company funds (Political Contributions). Trade Compliance Schlumberger provides products and services in many countries worldwide. Virtually all the countries in which we operate have customs laws, and many have additional trade controls that govern the import, temporary import, export or re-export of Schlumberger products, services, technology and software. Wherever we do business, we comply with all customs and trade control laws and regulations that apply to us, and we are especially mindful of technology transfers (Code of Conduct, p. 30). Business and Financial Transparency Schlumberger maintains honest and accurate business records. Our Code of Conduct prohibits hiding, altering, falsifying and disguising the true nature of any business transaction. Schlumberger complies with accounting and financial reporting standards and requires employees to comply with internal financial approval guidelines. We retain and destroy business records in accordance with local laws and Schlumberger requirements (Code of Conduct, p. 37). Conflict Minerals Schlumberger recognizes that there are serious human rights abuses associated with the extraction, transportation, and trade of minerals in some countries, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its adjoining countries. We support responsible sourcing of materials from suppliers that share our values and we commit to avoid contributing to the conflict through our sourcing activity. Schlumberger does not tolerate corruption of any kind in dealings with its suppliers, and we expect our suppliers to adhere to the same standard. We have also adopted a conflict minerals policy. Information Protection Information Security Schlumberger is committed to protecting and respecting the privacy of any employee or third-party personal information that it processes. Specific internal data privacy requirements guide the collection, use, transfer (including transfer across international boundaries), release, disclosure and security of such data. These requirements also describe our expectations for third parties who process such data on our behalf (Code of Conduct, p. 31). Consumer Data Protection Information is the foundation of our business. Confidential or commercially sensitive information comes in many forms, including in conversation, on paper and electronically. We treat all electronic records that are created or transmitted using Company tools as Company property, and we take every available measure to preserve the confidentiality of Schlumberger data and our customers’ data (Code of Conduct, p. 34). Intellectual Property Rights Protection Intellectual property that is created when a Schlumberger employee makes a new discovery or conceives of an idea, device, technique or process related to our business becomes the exclusive property of Schlumberger. Upon joining the Company, all employees agree to this concept as a condition of employment. The Company also protects its intellectual property and confidential information by using non-disclosure agreements and confidential disclosure agreements—before giving third parties access to such information. We also require compliance with restrictions on the installation and use of third-party software on Company computers (Code of Conduct, p. 35–36). Environmental Sustainability in Brief Operations Integrity Operations integrity means that every employee commits to doing the job right the first time, every time. We do this to protect our people, our communities, and the environment, and to deliver high-quality technology and services to our customers. To help make continuous quality improve.ments, we participate in all required audits and periodic assessments (Code of Conduct, p. 11, 14). Schlumberger’s multiyear transformation program benefited field operations through increased efficiency, improved reliability, and reduced nonproductive time (NPT). NPT is the time it takes to return to the same working position on a job after a service quality incident or equipment failure. In 2019, we improved our NPT rate by 60.1% compared to 2011, which is a significant achievement given industry conditions. By working more efficiently, decreasing NPT, and doing things right the first time, every time, we also help our customers reduce their emissions. Protecting the Environment Our advanced technologies enable our customers to lower their environmental impacts while optimizing the recovery of nonrenewable resources. By combining our technologies with increased engagement in the communities where we work, we are lowering emissions, decreasing water usage, and reducing unplanned releases. Addressing Climate Change As a global technology leader, we believe that our ability to address climate change issues with new technologies and increased opera.tional performance is integral to the energy industry’s global initiative to reduce its carbon footprint. Schlumberger technologies are already directly and indirectly helping our customers reduce or avoid emissions, lower water usage, improve chemistry applications, and increase oil and gas production by using fewer resources. Our corporate climate strategy includes identifying climate-related risks and opportunities, reducing our footprint, and helping our customers meet their environmental goals through the development of advanced technologies that contribute to lowering resource requirements and creating fewer emissions. Environmental Management Our HSE management system has included environmental quality management processes and requirements for more than 20 years. This system has been independently reviewed for conformance to the current version of the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standard, and for conformance to environmental standards of the International Finance Corporation. Social Sustainability in Brief Human Rights Schlumberger is committed to conducting business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity. Schlumberger recognizes the U.N. Guiding Principles, which are reflected in our Code of Conduct, our Human Rights Position Statement, and our other policies and procedures. Our due diligence processes to identify, assess and manage the human rights risks arising from our business activities center on five areas: in the workplace; in local communities; with indigenous peoples; around security arrangements; and in our supply chain (Code of Conduct, p. 27, and Human Rights Position Statement). Contributing to Development We continue to contribute to the social development and well-being of our communities by actively advancing education and health awareness, and by supporting initiatives that improve youth education and living conditions. We foster the economic development of these communities by recruiting, hiring, and training where we work, promoting from within, and complying with international labor standards and local content requirements. Schlumberger has developed a set of local content guiding principles that provide direction to management teams when they are formulating and implementing country-specific local content strategies (Code of Conduct, p. 27). Equal Opportunity–No Discrimination With product sales and services in more than 120 countries and employees who represent over 170 nationalities, one of Schlumberger’s greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce. Employees of many nationalities and backgrounds work together to achieve common objectives. As a global company, we encourage fair employment practices and offer equal opportunities to all our employees and contractors. Schlumberger obeys the employment laws of the countries in which it operates and does not engage in discrimination based on race, color, gender, age, sexual orien.tation, gender identity, ethnicity, disability, religion, union membership, or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as promotions, rewards, and access to training (Code of Conduct, p. 27). Labor Practices Schlumberger is committed to respecting the rights of workers as outlined in the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our starting point is conducting business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity as outlined in our Code of Conduct, Human Rights Position Statement, and Working Conditions Requirements. In line with the labor principles of the U.N. Global Compact, the Schlumberger Working Conditions Requirements provide a common baseline for the expected treatment of all employees, contractors, temporary workers, trainee workers and migrant workers. A summary of our Working Conditions Requirement is available on our website here. The requirements, first published in 2005, promote respect for the rights and welfare of our employees and those working within our supply chain by requiring safe and hygienic working conditions, respect for freedom of association, and that employment be freely chosen, and fair wages be paid. We also prohibit discriminative practices and harsh and inhumane treatment. Schlumberger respects freedom of speech and civil liberties. Our Working Conditions Requirements also prohibit charging any potential worker any fees, administrative costs or otherwise for participating in a recruitment process and/or securing a job, regardless of whether recruitment fees or similar are permitted or not prohibited by relevant local law. We have in place an online portal and a 24-hour EthicsLine system for receiving grievances, as outlined in our Code of Conduct, enabling anonymous reporting by anyone inside or outside the organization—available in 150+ languages. Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking We prohibit any use or contracting, directly or indirectly, of child labor, forced labor, human trafficking, or any other form of modern slavery. In 2019, Schlumberger completed a high-level risk assessment, performed by an independent risk analytics firm, across our global operations to identify the primary human rights risks in our supply chain to prevent any indirect use of modern slavery (Code of Conduct, p. 27). Community Impacts We continue to implement Schlumberger’s social risks management process, first launched in 2011, to realize our commitment to identify, prevent, mitigate, and resolve social risks and impacts in the communities where we live and work; optimize employment and contracting opportunities for our communities; and address community concerns, issues, and problems. In 2019, we completed social risk assessments in Ecuador, Colombia, Nigeria, and India. In-Country Value We recognize that procurement and hiring policies are an important factor in establishing the terms by which governments and local communities where we operate view the impacts of our business activities. We continue to implement our 2014 guideline for managing and delivering local content, which outlines our approaches to contributing to local development by providing local and national suppliers and workforce with full, fair and reasonable opportunities to participate in our business. 