Community Schlumberger continues to invest in our people and our technologies even during challenging economic times. We take the long view when it comes to our investment in the communities where we live and work. This is because we seek to have a positive impact on Schlumberger, our customers, and our stakeholders for the generations of today and tomorrow. Community THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTIn this Section  Education  36  Health and Safety  40  Social and Economic Impact  46  Stakeholder Engagement  52  Employment and Human Capital  56  Local Initiatives and Global Impact  64  Learn more about the Schlumberger commitment to the community: www.slb.com/globalstewardship/community Schlumberger is the world’s leading provider of technology for reservoir characterization, drilling, production, and processing to the oil and gas industry. Schlumberger is working in more than 85 countries and employing approximately 100,000 people who represent over 140 nationalities. By combining our advanced technology with increased engagement in the communities where we work, we are reducing our impact on the environment while also helping our host countries build capacity and resilience at the local level. 88 clubs Schlumberger sponsored 88 coding and robotics clubs to help inspire students to seek out careers in the computer science field. 3,000+ children During the year more than 120 learner-centered HSE for Youth workshops in 34 countries reached more than 3,000 children of our employees, contractors and customers as well as children from local schools. 10 languagesSchlumberger created a cancer awareness campaign, translated it into 10 languages, and distributed it to Company locations worldwide. Risk assessments In 2016, Schlumberger Production Management completed social risk assessments in Ecuador, India, Mexico, and Uzbekistan. THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTEducation We believe that empowering the educational advancement of schoolchildren and women makes a powerful contribution to developing economies, as well as to the individuals themselves. Our focus is on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects. Our community outreach programs are fully aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of ensuring quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all. Through our outreach programs we offer learning opportunities for schoolchildren, we help students understand and adopt HSE-related standards, and we fund women from developing and emerging economies to pursue advanced graduate study in STEM subjects at top universities worldwide. Education THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTSchlumberger Community Outreach Initiatives Faculty for the Future HSE for Youth SEED THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTSchlumberger Excellence in Education Development Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) is an educational program focusing on communities where Schlumberger people live and work. Through SEED, Schlumberger engages employees, educators, retirees, and volunteers around the world to share their passion for learning and science with students. A hands-on program that relies on the scientific and technological expertise of our employee volunteers, SEED focuses on STEM topics through camps, teacher professional development, workshops, and classroom visits. The SEED educational program is focused on robotics, computer science, and energy education. Robotics SEED sponsors schools through an introduction to robotics, construction of robots, programming via RobotC, and competitive challenges. Competitions enable students to compete in building robots while clubs, such as Schlumberger sponsored robotics clubs, help students learn about robotic programming. In addition, students learn about Schlumberger Robotics Services that is building an ocean sensor network intended to help solve some of the world’s greatest challenges and gain valuable insights into the marine environment. Computer Science SEED introduces students to computer-based programing and coding. We sponsor SEED workshops and Schlumberger coding clubs, and we introduce programming to students as early as the second grade with an MIT-based platform called SCRATCH. To encourage more students to take an interest in computer science, we also donate resources related to our Petrel E&P software platform to high schools and universities around the world. Schlumberger has partnered with Code.org, Microsoft TEALS, the Computer Science Teacher Association, and local educational systems to support the professional development of teachers in computer science education. Energy Education We have formed partnerships with the American Geosciences Institute, Society of Petroleum Engineers, National Energy Education Development, and the Offshore Energy Center to develop workshops and educational programs that help students and teachers understand the highly technical skillset needed to work in the energy industry. For the past seven years, we have partnered with the Independent Petroleum Association of America to provide internships designed to introduce high school students to the energy industry. STEM Workshops by the Numbers 132 27,281 1,572 730 Workshops Students Teachers Volunteers VEX IQ Robotics Competition Students at the Secondary School of Tecnica in Villahermosa, Mexico, won first place at a national VEX IQ robotics competition in April 2016, and later that month travelled to Louisville, Kentucky, to compete in the VEX World Competition. With VEX IQ, students are able to build a robot and program it to perform tasks such as picking up and dropping objects or maneuvering through obstacles. At the VEX World Competition, 850 teams from 29 nations competed with custom-built robots in intensive back-to.back matches. After three days, the students finished 53rd of 199 teams in the middle school VEX IQ division. Since 1998, more than 15,000 students from 15 schools have benefited from SEED programs in Mexico. Education THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTHSE for Youth Schlumberger continues to focus on mobilizing employees and their spouses to share HSE expertise within the communities where we work and live. Our award-winning HSE for Youth program informs and empowers young people aged seven to 18 years to make responsible, safe, globally and personally considered decisions regarding HSE issues. 9  3,000+  122  34  HSE Topics  Youths Involved  Workshops  Countries  Using a learner-centered approach with training materials adapted for HSE concerns, employees and their spouses share their expertise within our communities through program workshops focused on nine health and safety topics—injury prevention, personal security, Internet safety, road safety, malaria, HIV/AIDS, Ebola, water sanitation, and climate change. In 2016, HSE for Youth workshops were held, on average, once every three days. During the year over 120 learner-centered workshops in 34 countries reached more than 3,000 children of our employees, contractors, and customers as well as children from local schools. The program operates all over the world where Schlumberger is present. A workshop on road safety was delivered for the first time in Basra, Iraq, and we hosted our first workshop with our biggest client in Russia on the topics of internet safety and personal safety. In addition, we held our first workshop for the children of Cameron Group employees following completion of our merger. Faculty for the Future The Schlumberger Foundation awarded 49 new fellowships and renewed an additional 169 fellowships in its Faculty for the Future program for the 2016–2017 academic year. Faculty for the Future enables women from developing economies to pursue advanced graduate studies in STEM subjects at top-tier universities around the world. Since its launch in 2004, the program has awarded fellowships to 600 women from 78 developing and emerging countries. In 2016, Faculty for the Future fellows pursued doctoral and postdoctoral studies at 243 universities worldwide. The fellowships represent the Schlumberger Foundation’s long-term investment in a community of highly qualified role models who help narrow the gender gap in STEM disciplines by inspiring more women to study science. Fellowships are awarded based on the applicant’s academic ability, leadership qualities, and engagement in outreach activities toward underserved communities with STEM as a development instrument in their home countries. Recipients of Faculty for the Future fellowships have achieved academic excellence throughout their studies, often despite considerable financial challenges and traditional barriers to women’s education. After completing their studies, the alumnae are required to return to their home countries where they contribute to economic, social, and technological advancement by strengthening the teaching and research faculties of their home institutions and taking positions in the public sector where their newly acquired technical and scientific skills can help provide evidence-based support for policy-making. The research focus of the newest cohort of fellows is diverse, with the top five disciplines being chemistry, biological sciences, health sciences, computer sciences, and agriculture. This reflects the regional challenges encountered by the fellows and reveals their determination to improve conditions in their home countries through science. In addition to enabling women to attend graduate school, Faculty for the Future hosts forums where fellows and alumnae share their experiences and foster cooperation while debating topics of interest. In 2016, two forums were organized—Cape Town, South Africa, in August and Cambridge, England in October—offering an opportunity for the participants to collaborate, learn from each other, and network with distinguished scientists and other invited speakers. 49  169  600  New Scholarships Awarded  Scholarships Renewed  Fellows and Alumnae  78  24  243  Developing Countries  High Level Fields of Study  Host Universities of Study  THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTHealth and Safety Schlumberger is committed to maintaining the highest health and safety standards for employees, customers, and contractors, and for protecting the environment wherever we work and live. Our commitment encompasses health and safety risks in the workplace, in the field, and during travel on Company business. The Schlumberger HSE Management System defines the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide, and our management team applies our rigorous policies and standards throughout the Company. In addition, we have a long-standing commitment to sharing best practices through technical papers and other means. Schlumberger is a recognized industry leader in HSE performance. Health THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTHealth To reduce work-related and location-specific health risks, Schlumberger promotes industrial hygiene, ergonomics, a healthy lifestyle, and preventive medicine. Good health management helps reduce illness in the workplace, increase employee and family well-being, minimize medical evacuations and deaths, streamline health care costs, increase customer retention and satisfaction, optimize business performance and the Company’s reputation, and reduce project disruptions while protecting the health of all involved. We have a global network of doctors and health professionals who provide medical support at Company locations on land, at sea, and in remote and hostile environments. Each of our operating locations has a specific preventive training program with a focus on occupational health. Before new operations begin, and regularly thereafter, employees and pre-employees undergo medical checks and health-risk assessments. In addition, effective emergency response is required for extreme health risks that have the potential for rapid global expansion, such as SARS, H1N1, Ebola, and Zika. Zika virus Hundreds of thousands of people have been infected by this mosquito-transmitted disease, which was later found to also be transmitted by sexual intercourse. Although death from the Zika virus is rare, the major risk comes from mother-to-fetus transmission during pregnancy. This is responsible for thousands of cases of microcephaly (small head and mental retardation) observed in infected newborns, particularly in Brazil. Schlumberger management, including HSE and medical personnel, carefully followed the Zika virus epidemic in 2016 as it spread to numerous countries in South America and the Caribbean islands. The Company developed a Zika virus training package, including internal certification covering Zika virus symptoms, methods of transmission, prevention practices, and travel advice. Cameron Group The integration of Cameron required merging Cameron Group processes into Schlumberger health programs during 2016. Cameron Group employees and managers were familiarized with the Schlumberger health network, emergency response plans, health training programs, and the internal Health Hub. Cameron Group employees working in countries with high malaria risk were given mandatory malaria training and curative malaria kits. High-risk international travelers within Cameron were also integrated into the Schlumberger Med-Track examination program. Cancer Awareness Cancer is the most common cause of non-occupational deaths in Schlumberger—the most common include colorectal, breast, skin, and lung cancers. In 2016, Schlumberger created a cancer awareness campaign that was translated into 10 languages and distributed to Company locations worldwide. Healthy Initiatives Approximately 400 Schlumberger employees, family members, friends, neighbors, and pets walked five kilometers in Houston and Denver to raise funds for heart disease research. Several Schlumberger campuses in Houston have launched walking clubs where employees received pedometers for participating in noon-hour walks. In 2016, Schlumberger employees held drives and volunteered for a number of other worthy causes: • American Heart Association • March of Dimes • JDRF • Grant-a-Starr Foundation • FARE Walk for Food Allergy • Snowdrop Foundation Happy Hours • Houston Hemophilia Walk • National Multiple Sclerosis Society (150-mile bicycle ride) THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTSafety Shared Responsibility for Safety Schlumberger maintains a safe and productive work environment free from alcohol, controlled substances, and illegal drugs. We design our equipment and workplaces to enable safe operations, and we provide comprehensive training in injury prevention, hazard identification, risk assessment, prevention, and mitigation. To identify opportunities for improvement, and remedial actions to prevent recurrence, we require comprehensive reporting of hazardous situations and conditions. We also empower and obligate employees to intervene and stop a job if they consider a situation to be unsafe, a practice fully supported by Company management. HSE Management System The Schlumberger HSE Management System states the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide with regard to health, safety, and the environment. We establish and communicate HSE priorities, objectives, requirements and accountabilities to all employees, customers, contractors and third parties associated with our business. All of our corporate health, safety, and environmental standards must be implemented in all Schlumberger operations, and each Schlumberger organization must provide evidence of compliance. HSE Alert Program In 2016, we continued to develop our ability to communicate lessons learned from incidents and events. In addition, we introduced a new HSE Alert program to share best practices. These alerts focus on what happened and why, taking into account the type of HSE event and the expected employee behavior upon receiving an alert. HSE events in these alerts are ranked as yellow (preventative and good practice), orange (non-life-threatening), and red (fatality and high potential for fatality). Fatalities Schlumberger suffered six work-related fatalities in 2016. An employee was fatally injured during mechanical lifting activities to load equipment onto a heavy goods vehicle at a rigsite. Another employee was fatally injured as a result of a wellsite process safety event involving a fire and explosion. A contractor was involved in a fatal heavy vehicle collision. Three employees were fatally injured in two separate offshore helicopter crashes. All of these fatalities  were studied extensively, and the associated lessons learned were communicated company-wide. Security Management In 2016, Schlumberger released and implemented a risk-based approach to managing security for our personnel and assets. Due to the nature of our global business and operations, our employees, their families, contractors and third parties, and our Company assets may be exposed to security-related threats, including armed conflict, criminality, and civil unrest. Our objective is to reduce security risks to a level As Low As Reasonably Practicable (ALARP) through effective implementation of fundamental and risk-based controls, and through active continuous monitoring of security conditions. Crisis Management Schlumberger is continuing with initiatives to cascade its crisis management training programs throughout the organization. In 2016, an additional 288 employees were trained in crisis management. This training incorporates best practices in crisis Driving to ZERO Schlumberger launched a Driving to ZERO campaign within North America in 2016 to refocus efforts on zero-tolerance driving. Driving is a fundamental part of our work—during the year Schlumberger drivers in North America drove a total of 118 million miles on business. The Driving to ZERO campaign reinforces driver controls related to wearing seatbelts, refraining from using mobile devices while driving, ongoing driver training, avoiding the use of alcohol or drugs while driving, journey management, and logging trips properly. While our 2016 driving performance in North America improved significantly over the previous year, we continue to strive to achieve our goal of zero driving accidents. Safety THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTmanagement techniques and practices from global academic experts and expertise from within the Company, and includes a practical exercise in crisis management. Mechanical Lifting Standard Revised Schlumberger released a revised risk-based Mechanical Lifting Standard in 2016 to complement the DROPS Standard introduced in 2015. The new standard focuses on eliminating harm to people caused by mechanical lifting activities and associated dropped objects, and is fully aligned with industry best practices. The new standard encompasses personnel competence, lifting equipment and load integrity, and active Red Zone management. International Association of Oil and Gas Producers statistics indicate that over the last 10 years there have been 63 fatalities (almost 17% of all work-related fatalities among the association’s member companies) related to mechanical lifting, cranes, rigging and deck operations. All Schlumberger employees, contractors, and worksites must adhere to the requirements of the new standard. Assigned country and field mechanical lifting champions lead the worksite-level implementation process. Injury Prevention Schlumberger is committed to injury prevention for employees and contractors through the effective implementation of our own best practices and those from the industry. Our total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) rate has decreased annually since 2011. An analysis of our HSE data revealed that nearly 40% of personal injuries is related to hands and fingers. Although the overall number of personal injuries has decreased during the past 10 years, limited improvement has occurred in this category. To mitigate the risk, our hand and finger injury workshops and other programs continue to be an area of focus. Driving Safety In 2016, our focus continued to be on training, driving and journey management, and the implementation of new in-vehicle technologies to improve driver performance. Our risk-based driving and journey management approach provides effective management of driving activities in more than 85 countries. Every Schlumberger employee, from field to office, is required to take regular fit-for-purpose driver training, including the use of simulators and driver-improvement monitors to provide real-time, in-vehicle driving performance feedback. We also actively share our experience and expertise with our customers and in the communities where we work through our HSE for Youth and community outreach programs. Our comprehensive driver management system consolidates, leverages and augments the best practices of our various business groups to systematically eliminate accidents through training, journey and trip management, safe driving behavior, and compliance with Our Code of Conduct. Journey Management Centers Schlumberger journey management centers around the world reinforce safe driving behaviors and deliver increased support for drivers during each journey. The centers ensure that every trip is verified for compliance with journey management procedures where higher-risk driving environments are subject to more stringent controls and standards. Real-time tracking monitors driving behavior and provides immediate feedback to drivers. By defining, measuring, and shaping driving behaviors, the centers help drivers continuously improve their performance. These centers serve more than 40 countries with real-time journey tracking in 12 languages, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTPerformance Data Schlumberger captures HSE performance data through an online, enterprise-level business system that consolidates all HSE information. Accessible by all employees, this system enables them to monitor reported HSE events, incidents, observations, and Risk Identification Reports. Schlumberger employees are actively encouraged to report, and we use the data to benchmark our performance against industry data sources. To help prevent incidents from recurring, the system facilitates the investigation process and the management of remedial work plans to resolve incidents, identify learning opportunities, and incorporate the lessons learned by improving our facilities, equipment, processes, and systems. To ensure continuous improvement, we monitor trends and identify areas of concern. Schlumberger employees are able to use the online business system to suggest improvements, post recognitions, track HSE training, and analyze HSE data. The system can also be used to assign job-specific online HSE training, and to facilitate and track the testing and certification of computer-based training material. In 2016, Schlumberger launched a revised risk-based HSE Event Reporting and Management Standard, new event investigation training, and a mobile app for risk identification reporting. These initiatives form part of a global campaign focused on maximizing the learning potential from events using the investigation of incidents via process management, data integrity, and quality. Our health and safety performance, including the Cameron Group since the second quarter of 2016, has shown steady progress. Our total recordable injury frequency decreased 12% to the lowest rate since we started keeping records in 2000. Our automotive accident rate for the combined company showed a slight deterioration compared with 2015, which reinforces our commitment to improve driving and implement journey management across the entire organization, including newly acquired companies. Our contractor lost-time injury frequency increased from 0.46 to 0.56 injuries per million hours worked, largely due to an increase in project-based work including seismic and integrated projects. The International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) annually reports upstream oil and gas work-related safety performance statistics. Schlumberger uses the IOGP definitions and reporting criteria to classify HSE data. The data include injuries sustained by Company employees and contractors engaged in work-related activities. PwC auditors reviewed our processes and procedures for 2016 and verified a subset of our environmental and social data. The health and safety lost time injury and occupational illness frequency data reviewed included employee and contractor lost time injury frequencies and an occupational illness frequency rate. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are, in all material respects, fairly presented and in accordance with Schlumberger procedural guidelines. Note: 2016 data includes the Cameron Group from April through December. Fatal Accident Rate (per 100 million work hours) 1.84 0.53 2014 2015 2016 Total Recordable Injury Frequency (per million work hours) 1.60 1.43 2014 2015 2016 Performance Data THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTCombined Lost-Time Injury Frequency (per million work hours) 0.96 0.92 2014 2015 2016 Automotive Accident Rate (per million miles) 0.25 0.21 2014 2015 2016 Employee Lost-Time Injury Frequency (per million work hours) 0.68 0.57 0.49 2014 2015 2016 Contractor Lost-Time Injury Frequency (per million work hours) 0.56 0.46 0.44 2014 2015 2016 Fatalities by Year (employees) 415 2014 2015 2016 Fatalities by Year (contractors) 411 2014 2015 2016 World Safety Day In April, Schlumberger Health, Safety, and Environment and Loss Prevention teams focused on simulated real-life activities where participants could learn by doing during World Safety Day. Teams in more than 300 locations around the world formed small groups and participated in emergency drills where they responded to a situation without outside assistance. Scenarios were based on hazards and risks most relevant to each location and segment. For example, the Middle East Learning Center focused on mechanical and manual lifting activities, information security, and a simulated chemical spill causing unconsciousness while the Siberian Training Center staged scenarios involving a foot injury during forklift operations, an ergonomics challenge, and cardiac arrest. In France, the European Learning Center team staged scenarios such as opaque smoke billowing into the classroom, unauthorized access by an intruder, and a heart attack while the HSE team at the Schlumberger Riboud Product Center coordinated a fire safety event for more than 130 employees. In the United States, employees at the Kellyville Learning Center staged similar scenarios, including a toxic hazardous spill drill on a coiled tubing pad in front of the lunchroom using water and food dye and a tornado preparedness drill. Employees at the Sugarland Learning Center campus participated in a simulated lithium battery explosion and heavy objects dropped from height. In each scenario, employees made use of existing HSE training that includes training about identifying hazards on scene, assessing the situation, knowing emergency response plans, and using first-aid techniques. World Safety Day is organized in connection with the United Nations International Labor Organization World Day for Safety and Health at Work. THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTSocial and Economic Impact Schlumberger people are located in approximately 85 countries around the globe. We live where we work, we recruit and hire locally wherever possible, and we are committed to building local capacity in our supply chains. By providing employment and training for local workers and procuring goods and services locally, we help our host countries build capacity and resilience at the local level. We take a long-term interest in our communities, often positively influencing community development while at the same time managing our operational risks. This creates shared value—actions that generate business value also generate social value. Our community investment focus is on addressing social issues such as education and health. Investing Locally THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTInvesting Locally Global Stewardship means that Schlumberger shares the same challenges as our employees, contractors, suppliers, clients, shareholders, families, and communities. As a business and a community of individuals, we care about our impact on society and focus on areas where our organizational strengths, our technological expertise, and cultural values can have the greatest impact. Our philanthropic activities reflect the Company’s values and focus on a limited range of social and educational issues that call for strategic involvement and partnerships with community organizations. We make our largest commercial investments in academia for basic and applied research that we conduct in partnership with top universities, where we also contribute millions of dollars annually in reservoir software, training, and support. Our in-kind contributions to the community include Schlumberger products, equipment, services, and other noncash items, as well as 3D printers, refurbished computers, office supplies, and office furniture. In-Kind Giving Commercial Initiatives Community Initiatives (billions) (billions) (millions) (millions) $2.65 $2.3 $16.9 $10 2015 2016 2015 2016 President’s Volunteer Service Award Schlumberger received a Junior Achievement USA Bronze President’s Volunteer Service Award in 2016. Created by the President’s Council on Service and Civic Participation, the award is given to individuals and organizations who contribute a significant amount of time to volunteer service. During the year, Schlumberger volunteers contributed more than 5,000 hours of teaching to students in the Houston area. STEM Workshop in Vietnam The first Schlumberger SEED STEM workshop in Vietnam in nearly 10 years was held in June. The workshop included an introduction to engineering, injury prevention, and the health and safety risks on the job. As electrical engineers for a day, the students learned about simple and parallel electrical circuits using tools such as paper, a coin cell battery, conductive copper tape, and sticker LEDs. Russian Students Honored Two students from a SEED sponsored school in Russia were invited to represent the Russian team at the 2016 Intel International Science and Engineering Fair Competition. High school students from 75 countries, regions, and territories had the opportunity to showcase their independent research and compete against 1,700 of their peers. In addition, SEED students from a school in Russia participated in the annual robotics Eurobot competition junior category (for ages 18 and younger). Using controlled robots that had to perform a number of tasks in 90 seconds, the Russian teams participated in two stages of the competition, including a city tour held in Moscow where they earned second place and a second stage in Skolkovo where they won third place. THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTHuman Rights Schlumberger is committed to supporting the United Nations General Assembly Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our commitment is articulated in the Schlumberger Blue Print in Action–Our Code of Conduct, which states, “Schlumberger endorses the aspirations of the International Bill of Rights and encourages work that augments the contributions that business can make to preserve and respect human dignity”. Schlumberger participates in the United Nations Guiding Principals Reporting Framework, which includes a picture of the Company activities on human rights. Social Risk Assessments Social risk assessments are designed for projects with a high potential for significant social and environmental impact. The proprietary tool we use has three integrated phases: planning, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation. Information collected during the planning phase is used to analyze social hazards, in terms of risks to people and to projects, and develop 2009 Established our social responsibility process and began conducting risk assessments of projects with large footprints in countries where we have new operations, frontier countries, and countries with emerging issues. 2010 Reviewed 400 statements of Company policy, standards, and guidelines against the Business and Human Rights Matrix developed by the Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights. appropriate responses as part of our commitment to our Global Stewardship. Since we implemented the social risks assessment process in 2009, 35 assessments have been completed in more than 15 countries. In 2016, social risk assessments were completed in Ecuador, India, Mexico, and Uzbekistan. Social Investment Collaboration In 2016, Schlumberger Production Management developed a voluntary social investment program on its large-footprint projects in Ecuador. During a series of workshops with the operator and first-tier contractors, Schlumberger identified three areas of potential social investment: community health, education, and arts and culture. The partners then examined legacy programs that could be revitalized or expanded to bring measurable long-term benefits and social change to local communities. This social investment collaboration has helped us develop shared values across the contracting chain in Ecuador, creating a greater awareness of community priorities and a better understanding of community concerns and expectations. 2011 Completed a review of customer and peer human rights statements and policies to further our understanding of the United Nations’ Protect, Respect, and Remedy framework. 2013 Introduced a new Social and Environmental Management Standard for large-footprint projects. Performance Data (2009–2016) 35 Social Risks Assessments  16 5Countries  Continents  4 Social Risk  8 Social and Environmental  Assessments in 2016 Baseline Studies 2014 Revised Security Standard to incorporate a reference to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. 2015 Developed preliminary alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Supply Chain THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTSupply Chain In today’s competitive global economy, we know that strong relationships with our suppliers are essential to meeting our own needs, the needs of our customers, and local content. We only procure goods and services from financially stable, technically qualified, and reliable sources. Our preferred suppliers are those who work with us in a professional, ethical, competitive, and cost-effective manner consistent with Schlumberger policies, procedures, and business objectives. When evaluating potential suppliers, Schlumberger considers delivery price, reliability, operational costs, and after-sales support. Schlumberger Supply Chain Services provides our field and manufacturing locations with supplier management, strategic sourcing, logistics, and inventory management. Supply chain processes are regularly reviewed to ensure quality in our services and products. Every supplier we select must comply with Schlumberger standards. Local Hiring Whenever possible, Schlumberger hires workers where we work. Hiring locally helps to ensure that we invest in the regional economy through local employment and supplier opportunities, and it helps local economies expand their business opportunities while also fostering our involvement with the community. Moreover, foreign nationals working in their home countries better understand the challenges of doing business there. This local hiring practice establishes a hospitable and receptive environment for our businesses in foreign markets and it helps our Company expand its global footprint in a competitive marketplace. In addition, it is in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development goals to end poverty in all its forms everywhere, and to promote full and productive employment and decent work for all. Local Suppliers We invest time and resources to help our local suppliers meet our stringent quality and HSE standards. Our investment in things such as safety training, driver training, installation of in-vehicle monitors, and vehicle maintenance standards helps build the competitiveness of local vendors. All of our social investments in local suppliers are underpinned by core principles: they must be connected to our business and rooted in the communities where we work; and they must be focused, streamlined, and accountable. Supply Chain Management Schlumberger maintains a Supplier Management Dashboard that analyzes our spending by supplier, commodity, geography, business segment, legacy company, and trends over time. Schlumberger supplier managers are responsible for evaluating suppliers against our established performance metrics in order for them to be included in our approved supplier list. In addition, total procurement spending is presented in the analysis. Critical Suppliers Suppliers are classified as critical if they provide materials, components, or services that may significantly influence one or more aspects of Schlumberger products and services performance. This includes elements as safety, technology, competitiveness, and compliance with operations integrity, HSE, and ethics standards. Comprehensive audits of our critical suppliers are conducted per a defined schedule and incorporate supplier performance, finance, contract, HSE, Quality, and Ethics and Compliance components including human rights and labor questions. Critical Suppliers Critical Suppliers (absolute number) (percentage of total spend) 1,914 1,960 52% 27% 2015 2016 2015 2016 Total Suppliers (absolute number) 48,902 52,109 2015 2016 THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENTPerformance Data Awareness Critical Suppliers for which Spend analysis covers more than 40% of their revenue 100% of suppliers comes from Schlumberger 52,109 suppliers 209 suppliers Risk Assessment Of spend is covered  Suppliers that are  in risk analysis  at high risk  Risk Management  Supplier Audits were Of audited suppliers have a conducted in 2016 documented development plan Supply Chain THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTDevelopment Program for Local Suppliers Acquiring goods and services from local suppliers is a legal and contractual obligation in many countries where we work, but most importantly, a way to maximize our positive impact in local communities. A recurring challenge is that many local companies do not meet the Schlumberger minimum requirements to become a supplier, which may include being certified and familiar with oil and gas best practices, operating according to labor laws, as well as client and HSE requirements. In 2016, Schlumberger launched a Local Suppliers Development Program in Colombia. The program is designed to drive improvements in quality, HSE, delivery, cost, and the capacity of local suppliers. The program will initially support 14 Colombian companies throughout 2017. The results of our efforts in the development of this plan benefits the communities in which we work as well as our customers. By helping local suppliers meet our industry requirements, we seek to promote innovation through the sourcing of new products and services, develop alternative channels for procuring goods and services, and create new business opportunities in the locations where we operate. This also enables us to align with our customers’ best practices because some of them already have similar supplier development programs in place. REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), a European Union regulation that covers manufacturing, importing, placement, and use of chemical substances, provides a high level of protection to human health and the environment by making people responsible for understanding and managing the risks associated with chemical use. In 2016, Schlumberger continued to develop new chemicals and technologies that comply with REACH regulations in Europe. In addition, we reviewed our European chemicals portfolio with a view to reduce our REACH registration costs. Conflict-Free Minerals Schlumberger is committed to purchasing only those parts and products containing minerals that have been procured through a validated conflict-free supply chain to avoid the use of minerals that have financed conflict in the covered countries, and we expect our suppliers to abide by the same standard. When a validated conflict-free supply chain or a robust mineral-tracing program is established, we will expect our direct suppliers to procure minerals using only that validated supply chain. If a direct supplier provides us with minerals that have not been procured through a validated supply chain or that are found to have financed conflict, we will recommend that the supplier seek an alternative means of sourcing to prevent possible termination of our relationship with that supplier. Freely-Chosen Employment Schlumberger is committed to, and expects from its suppliers, the highest ethical standards of business conduct and compliance with laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. We require that all work is voluntary and that workers are free to leave upon reasonable notice. We prohibit the use of forced, bonded, indentured, or involuntary prison labor. Supply Chain Sustainability OneSubsea worked closely with the Woodside contracting and procurement team in Australia to help the Company develop a more comprehensive framework to manage its overall supply chain risks with respect to sustainability. By reviewing the Woodside supply chain elements, OneSubsea was able to better understand where equipment materials are sourced, which subcontractors are involved, and the process used to determine supplier suitability as well as employment terms and conditions. The OneSubsea analysis, which was completed in 2016, helped provide a platform for Woodside to advance its supply chain management techniques and methodologies in 2017. We know that strong relationships with our suppliers are essential to meeting our own needs, the needs of our customers, and local content. 