Our People framework explains We put people first by acting ethically, respecting human rights, how we manage our impacts, meet high-level societal keeping people safe, building a more diverse and inclusive expectations and local workplace, driving positive social and economic outcomes, and obligations, and support the managing our approach to climate change and energy transition sustainable development goals where we work and live. in a fair and socially inclusive way. Creating In-Country Value We invest in societies and communities by building partnerships to focus our social efforts: recruiting, hiring, and training where we work; sourcing from diverse local suppliers; and creating regional technology strategies with a high degree of local content. Respecting Human Rights We are committed to conducting business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity and working with suppliers who share this commitment. Our respect for human rights is integral to the way we work. Promoting Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Wherever we operate, we strive to put people first by building a truly diverse workforce, safeguarding peoples’ mental health and wellbeing, and endeavoring to create more inclusive environments—in the workplace, in our supply chains, and in host communities—so that every individual feels welcomed, accepted, respected, safe, and able to fully contribute. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Creating In-Country Value We Create In-Country Value By • investing in communities by building local partnerships to drive action in support of achieving the UN SDGs, while addressing local challenges of most relevance to Schlumberger and the communities where we work and live • supporting economic opportunity by recruiting, hiring, and training where we work; sourcing from diverse local suppliers; and building regional technology and manufacturing strategies with a high degree of local content • managing a Schlumberger SAFE environment that reduces exposure to safety incidents and safeguards people’s mental health and wellbeing. Investing in Communities We strive to avoid harm to people, to make a marked and positive impact wherever we work, and to partner with our customers to support a stable operating environment in which communities and the energy industry can prosper. Schlumberger focuses on understanding and managing the impacts of our operations, business relationships, and supply chain on people and society. Since 2014, Schlumberger’s Social Investment Management Guidelines have supported our operations by planning, designing, implementing, overseeing, and disseminating social programs at the country and business level. By engaging with customers, local authorities, and community representatives to provide insights on local needs, resources, and systems and focusing on issues that matter locally, we are able to leverage our experience and resources to establish partnerships, empower communities, and drive positive impact that meets the expectations of all our stakeholders. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Creating In-Country Valuecontinued Education Outreach One of our focus areas for social investment is education, which we deliver in alignment with SDG 4, promoting quality education and lifelong learning opportunities for all. Today our education outreach efforts are centered on three main programs: • Faculty for the Future – funding women from developing economies to pursue PHD or post-doctoral studies in STEM subjects at top universities worldwide, managed by the Schlumberger Foundation, a nonprofit organization • Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) – providing STEM learning opportunities for young people since 1998 • HSE for Youth – helping students understand and make safe HSE-related decisions Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Creating In-Country Valuecontinued Supply Chain Localization Schlumberger is committed to optimizing the opportunities afforded to local suppliers based in the countries where we operate wherever technically feasible lawful and where it makes business sense. For example, we cultivate and engage local suppliers by implementing local content plans and supplier development programs in the communities affected by our operations. A focus of these programs is to ensure that our local suppliers have the skills necessary to deliver our required scope of work and are afforded the same opportunities to participate in our procurement process as other supply chain participants. Regional Technical Capabilities With a focus on local economies, Schlumberger is investing in regional technical strategies that facilitate regional energy access with a high degree of local content. We have two themes relating to regional technology strategies: Fit for Basin and Technology Access. In both cases, our ambition is to create additional growth and return opportunities for Schlumberger in a basin, while creating local value and opportunity in the basin or country and indirectly contributing to energy access. In-Country value creation and local partnerships are key components of these solutions. In Technology Access projects, we partner with local service providers by selling, leasing, or licensing to them selected Schlumberger technologies, which they in turn operate for their customers. In these ventures, Schlumberger gains access to new markets, our partners get the opportunity to work with established Schlumberger technologies, and customers gain access to technologies they would otherwise not have had the opportunity to use as part of their local commercial agreements. This approach also supports our corporate transition to a more asset-light portfolio, especially when implemented in business lines that are traditionally capital intensive. In Fit for Basin, we develop technology to address a specific technical challenge inside a basin that cannot be addressed from within the global technology portfolio, due to technical specifications or commercial challenges. These solutions could incorporate both hardware and software customization. They also provide enhanced customer engagement and, in many cases, an opportunity to accelerate development and consequently energy access in the region. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Creating In-Country Valuecontinued Recruiting Where We Work We recognize that our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain a highly competent and diverse workforce has been key to our success for many decades. As a global company focused on creating and optimizing value for our customers, we believe it is critical for our people to be able to communicate with our customers in their native languages and to share the values of the people in the countries where we work. We are known as a company with global resources and local expertise, able to understand, respect, and work in the local culture of our customers. As such, we recognize that diversity and inclusion are business imperatives for attracting the best talent from around the world and enabling creativity and innovation to drive business success. Human Capital Management Employee Recruitment and Retention We have developed programs designed to recruit and retain employees and to identify ways to increase employee engagement and satisfaction across the organization. To help identify future employees, we also offer several internships for students. Interns generally progress through a period of intensive off-the-job technical training or receive on-the-job training interspersed with formal seminars. Employee Development The energy industry and the global work environment have shifted drastically in the last few years, making the mission of business leaders more complex and challenging. At Schlumberger, we are committed to fostering the growth and development of our employees. For both our current and future leaders, we focus on instilling a leadership skillset and mindset from day 1 of our onboarding training, through ongoing classroom training, digital content, and personalized coaching at various levels of management. In 2021, Schlumberger onboarded approximately new employees and  contractors almost entirely digitally. 16,000Compensation Arrangements  Schlumberger employees are encouraged to freely discuss  We target less than 11  As part of our total rewards package, we systematically offer  their occupational interests with management, in good faith  months from onboarding  to full-time and part-time employees benefits related to life and accident insurance, short-term and long-term disability coverage, and retirement savings plans. All Schlumberger  and in accordance with local laws. Schlumberger actively participates in collective bargaining agreements with employees in several countries.  to autonomous job performance.  employees are eligible to receive equity-based compensation  awards under Schlumberger’s stock plans.  In addition, as of January 2022, approximately 98% of full-time  Schlumberger employees were eligible to participate in the  Company’s employee discounted stock purchase plan (with the  remaining 2% ineligible primarily due to local legal restrictions).  Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Respecting Human Rights Schlumberger is committed to conducting business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity, which is fundamental to our purpose—to create amazing technology that unlocks access to energy for the benefit of all. By respecting human rights, we look to avoid harm, and we have the potential to contribute to more inclusive societies. We Respect Human Rights By • making human rights a topic our employees and contractors can understand, speak about and act upon • working with suppliers who respect and comply with our Working Conditions Requirements • providing mechanisms for employees and suppliers to report any human rights concerns. Human Rights Position Statement Our Human Rights Position Statement provides additional details about our approach to human rights. It incorporates international recognized human rights standards including the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and relevant ILO Conventions. UN Global Compact Our 2021 Communications on Progress outlines our progress on the 10 United Nations Global Compact Principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Modern Slavery We prohibit any use or contracting, directly or indirectly, of child labor, forced labor, human trafficking, or other form of modern slavery. Our 2021 Modern Slavery Statement outlines our policies and goals with respect to the prevention of slavery and human trafficking within our own operations, value chain, and relationships, as well as relevant actions taken in 2021 in NINE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF SCHLUMBERGER’S WORKING CONDITIONS REQUIREMENTS Employment is Child Labor Shall No Discrimination Freely Chosen Not Be Used is Practiced No Harsh or Inhumane Wages are No Workers Should Treatment is Allowed Respected Pay a Fee for a Job Indigenous People: Australia Reconciliation Action Plan Our Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) for Australia is our roadmap to build stronger relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, reduce Aboriginal inequalities in line with the UN SDGs and reinforce our commitment to perform with purpose in Australia. Our RAP supports culturally safe worksites, culturally aware non-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander workforce, and provides avenues for innovative and targeted meaningful engagement through longer-term business and employment opportunities. furtherance of these policies and goals. Freedom of Association Complaints and Feedback Systems Working Conditions is Respected for Workers are in Place are Safe and Hygienic Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Respecting Human Rightscontinued 2021 ACHIEVEMENTS Deployed the IPIECA and Building Responsibly modern slavery training materials in the Schlumberger eLearning Platform and developed training pathways for employees and contractors with touchpoints to human rights. Updated our Respect and Professionalism in the Workplace training, 6independent human which is mandatory rights audits of our for all employees and facilities and suppliers contractors, as we continue our drive in five countries. to a more inclusive environment. Completed For more than  years, Schlumberger has been focused on Human Rights. Delivered tailored training on ethical recruitment and the Employer Pays Principle to more than 100 employees Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Our main focus remains to increase representation of women at all levels of the organization. Promoting Talent & DEI One of Schlumberger’s greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce. Achieving increased nationality and cultural diversity and gender balance across all parts of our organization has been a focus for Schlumberger for many years. Our ability to attract and retain top talent enables us to develop innovative, fit-for.basin solutions for our customers and to implement our business strategies. We strive to promote and cultivate an atmosphere of equity and inclusion where every member of the Schlumberger team is encouraged to share ideas and positively contribute to our organization. Diversity as a Competitive Advantage Our focus on putting people first is the first element of our corporate strategy, because our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain a highly competent and diverse workforce has been key to our success for many decades. Our diverse workforce positions us to effectively deliver services and products that meet the unique expectations and requirements of our stakeholders, including customers, suppliers and shareholders. At Schlumberger, we recognize that cultivating diversity and promoting inclusion are not just the right thing to do—they are essential to attracting the best talent from around the world and enabling creativity and innovation to drive business success. Energy transition and changing geopolitics are both increasingly driving regionalization. Schlumberger is competitively well positioned from both a workforce and a technology perspective to manage this risk and capture the opportunity that it represents for the company and for the countries where we work. National and Cultural Diversity Our employees represent more than 160 nationalities and have experience in more than 120 countries. Schlumberger recruits and develops people in alignment with our business objectives, and we have continued to maintain a workforce nationality mix aligned to the revenue derived from the countries in which we work, as reflected in the charts at right. Our long-standing commitment to national and cultural diversity fosters a culture that is global in outlook, yet local in practice, which permeates every layer of the company. This commitment is particularly important in the context of increasing regionalization and deglobalization and represents a competitive advantage for Schlumberger. Employees from non-Western countries and emerging economies are integrated into every level of our workforce, including senior management. Our executive leadership team includes officers from Europe, North America, Australia, Asia, North Africa, and the Middle East. In addition, our geographically diverse Board of Directors collectively represent 10 nationalities across five continents, as detailed in our 2022 proxy statement. Gender Balance Gender balance is another important pillar of our diversity and inclusion strategy. We are committed to lead our industry in gender diversity, and we incentivize Schlumberger managers to continuously challenge gender stereotypes and to monitor and increase the representation of women within their teams. We are on track to reach our interim milestone of 25% women in our salaried employee population by 2025. As a result, in 2021, we set our next milestone to continue our progress—for women to comprise 30% of our salaried employee population by 2030. This target includes executive roles and all other salaried positions. In 2021, we continued the progress we made in 2020 toward our gender balance milestone, across all levels and particularly in leadership roles. Women held 18% of all senior management roles at the Company in 2021, a 4% increase year over year, and made up 30% of our executive leadership team at year-end. In addition, approximately 18% of our total workforce and 23% of our salaried employee population were women at year-end 2021. Women also represented approximately 48% of our 2021 new hires for salaried roles with STEM backgrounds, up from 45% in 2020. 13% North America 15% Latin America 1% Others 19% North America 19% Latin America 160+ 9 Nationalities Nationalities in Our  on Our Executive  Workforce Leadership Team as of year-end 2021 39% Middle East and Asia 33% Europe, CIS, and Africa 36% Middle East and Asia 25% Europe, CIS, and Africa 110 Nationalities Among Our Managers Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Promoting Talent & DEIcontinued We target parity  in hiring and 50%  gender balance. Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) In 2021, we launched ThisAbility, a new ERG that expands on our preexisting groups: Connect Women; Black Organization for Leadership & Diversity (BOLD); and LGBT + Allies. ThisAbility aims to build a community of employees across the company while providing a space for employees with disabilities and employee caregivers to share experiences if they wish to do so. No Discrimination Schlumberger obeys the employment laws of the countries in which it operates and does not engage in discrimination based on race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, religion, union membership, or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as promotions, rewards, and access to training, as indicated in our Code of Conduct and our Human Rights Position Statement. Employees receive training on the Code of Conduct during their onboarding. This training is tracked in our system of record. A focus on discrimination is also included in the training of our recruiters, hiring managers, and campus managers prior to university or hiring events. We regularly review our historical hiring data to identify any biases that might have occurred in the selection process. This information is then communicated to our hiring manager and recruiters in reviewing our hiring practices. We encourage employees to report any concerns. 2021 WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP Equal Pay Gap Tied to Experience We recently published our 2021 Women and Pay report, the industry’s first global pay gap report. We reported that our equal pay gap is 2.68% in favor of men and is tied to a two-year gap in experience within similar roles. Our efforts to recruit more women and our culture of promotion from within lead to a positive momentum for gender balance that translates into an experience gap within similar roles. Our main focus remains to increase representation of women at all levels of the organization. Supplier Diversity Programs We believe supplier diversity is important for business continuity as well as a pathway to economic prosperity for underrepresented groups. As a result, we have developed supplier diversity programs in several countries, including the United States and Canada. United States Supplier Diversity Program In 2021, we enhanced our internal business systems to better visualize and identify diverse suppliers. We developed a standardized process to facilitate more inclusive sourcing, along with tools to increase awareness and participation of the program within the Schlumberger supply chain team. We believe this initiative will ultimately allow Schlumberger to realize untapped potential in the supply market, positively impact local communities, and continue to be the customer of choice for our partners. To further strengthen our collaboration with diverse suppliers, we engage them in • small and diverse supplier workshops • innovation forums • diversity advocacy organization engagements. Canada Supplier Diversity and Aboriginal Relations This program’s vision is to engage with Aboriginal communities and demonstrate our commitment through our actions and partnerships. We engage Canadian Aboriginal suppliers through • progressive Aboriginal Relations Program • partnerships with Aboriginal hiring organizations • engaging with customers on Aboriginal initiatives • membership in the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business (CCAB). We are on track to reach our interim milestone of 25% women The purpose of our US supplier diversity program is to provide opportunities to historically underrepresented businesses to become a customer of choice, while supporting the participation of diverse local suppliers, making a contribution to economic growth in the communities where we work and live. in our salaried employee population by 2025 and have set the 30% 22% 48% next milestone of 30% by 2030 to continue progress. Executive Team Management-Level Roles New STEM Hires 