Security Management Due to the nature of our global business and operations, Schlumberger  maintains a focus on managing security for our personnel and assets.  Our employees, their families, contractors, third parties, and our company assets may be exposed to security-related threats, including armed conflict, criminality, and civil unrest. Our objective is to reduce security risks to a level deemed “as low as reasonably practicable” through effective implementation of fundamental and risk-based controls and active continuous monitoring of security conditions. Schlumberger security specialists—both employees and contractors under our operational control—are required to maintain security arrangements that are consistent with applicable laws and the following international standards: • Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights • United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights • United Nations Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials • United Nations Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials Pretravel Security and Health Requirements Schlumberger’s online QHSE business system serves as a repository for  country-specific health and security information, including the company’s  security risk ratings for countries and regions within countries. Prior to traveling for business reasons, Schlumberger personnel are required to review  applicable security and health information for their destination country and, for high-risk destinations, have their travel approved. Our travel booking  system automatically sends e-mails with travel advice, relevant security, health and cultural information, local Schlumberger emergency contact  numbers, and national authority emergency information. Control measures for Schlumberger personnel—proportionate to the country security threat and alert level—may include travel security guidance or  precautions, security escorts upon arrival in a country or region, and the use of company-approved accommodations (for example, staff houses or hotels with adequate security standards). Health-specific requirements for travel may include certain vaccinations and certificates, preventive medication, training on disease prevention (for example, malaria protection controls such as bed nets, repellents, and testing kits), water and food hygiene, animal bite and sting prevention, other immediate response actions, climate-related hazards, and medical emergency management. In early 2020, Schlumberger restricted business travel to “business critical” travel in compliance with applicable local COVID-19 travel guidelines. Business Continuity, Emergency and Crisis Management Each Schlumberger location has comprehensive Emergency Response Plans (ERPs) and trained personnel to respond to anticipated local emergency scenarios such as emergency evacuation, fire, medical emergency response, security threat response, spill response, natural disasters, and other specific operational hazards such as hazardous substances, hydrogen sulfide releases, and well control incidents. More than 6,000 location emergency response drills were held and recorded in the global online QHSE business system in 2020. In 2020, Schlumberger updated its global Business Continuity, Emergency and Crisis Management Standard. This standard sets out a risk-based approach, incorporating the Harvard School of Public Health’s National Preparedness Leadership Initiatives and Meta-Leadership programs, and provided the basis for our global COVID-19 crisis management response in 2020. It adopts a global hierarchy of crisis and emergency management and response teams to effectively respond to developing crisis events and to protect our people, assets, and ability to operate, as well as the environment, stakeholders’  interests, and Schlumberger’s reputation. Each Schlumberger site is required to assess its potential emergency  situations, put ERPs in place for each emergency scenario, provide sufficient response capabilities, including resources and emergency response teams, and conduct local drills for these ERPs. Standardized global flowcharts,  guidance, and checklists are provided to assist the emergency and crisis  management teams with their initial response actions. Schlumberger  employees and contractors working at customer or third-party locations  are required to follow the applicable site emergency response protocols and participate in any drills and response activities in accordance with their training, competence, and agreed responsibilities in the site-specific plans. Lessons learned and feedback on what worked well during drills and actual emergency situations are then reported and reviewed both locally and globally for purposes of continual improvement. This program is based on our fundamental corporate commitment to the company’s HSE function as a core differentiating competency. Each of the Crisis Management Teams (CMTs) and Emergency Management Teams (EMTs) comprise nine core members, primarily representing  Schlumberger business functions: • CMT leader • Crisis management coordinator • Communications coordinator • Stakeholder manager • Human Resources • Legal counsel • IT Services • Facilities • Finance. Designated emergency and crisis management centers are suitably equipped and maintained in geographically dispersed locations to support regional  CMTs and country EMTs, as well as site-specific emergency response teams. Technical subject matter expertise is made continually available to the geographic CMTs and EMTs via business line global operations control centers. We also annually conduct a global-level review of our consolidated geographic, functional, and business line risks to analyze correlations and trends and report the same to our executive management. We also conduct regular crisis and emergency management drills—quarterly at the country level, biannually at the geographic area level, and annually at the corporate level—to practice coordinating people, organizations, resources, and information to best mitigate and control a wide range of scenarios, from our initial response through reestablishing operations. In 2020, we conducted a series of cybersecurity drills in addition to operational drill scenarios and a variety of response and management drills to combine reasonably foreseeable emergency and crisis scenarios with the response actions in place for the COVID-19 global pandemic. Emergency Response Tools and Guidance To support our crisis, emergency, and business continuity management  process, we have implemented standardized company tools and guidance across the organization. Examples of such tools include: • Global online risk mapping tool with geographically conducted vulnerability assessments that include the identification of threats to each business line, function, and manufacturing center • Emergency response assessment tools, standardized emergency response plan templates, and comprehensive guidance for a variety of scenarios (such as natural disasters, extreme weather conditions, injuries, illness, fire, security threat, and evacuation of building, site or country) • Comprehensive global reference manual and online library of available resources, such as notification and response flowcharts, checklists, and drill scenarios, as well as best practices, which are regularly updated based on lessons learned from company responses to drills and real crisis and emergency situations • Designated trained CMTs and crisis management planning at both corporate and geographic area levels, as well as designated trained EMTs and emergency management planning in every country of operation, all of which follow a company-wide crisis and emergency management playbook • Incident response digitally enabled application that links to our global crisis and emergency management online portal in order to: – Identify and map internal and external stakeholders (such as contractors, customers, regulators, emergency services, government agencies, specialist service providers, community officials, members of the public, and/or media) – Maintain real-time internal and external communications – Record crisis and emergency response and management decisions and actions throughout each crisis or emergency cycle – Manage business continuity actions and decisions • Emergency situation identification, vulnerability assessment, and response planning for every company location, using global tools to maintain consistent assessment of the threats, internal and external resource capability analysis, and plans for control and mitigation of emergency situations • Communication tools, including mass e-mail distributions, text message alerts with receipt confirmation, news and updates on our company intranet and internal social media channels, 24-hour emergency call centers, and standard IT tools for managing and documenting actions taken and interactions with stakeholders • Business impact analysis and continuity planning assessment tools,  templates, and guidance covering (among other things) anticipated  business disruptions. Emergency Response Training In 2020, we continued implementing our crisis management training programs throughout our organization. Nearly 90 senior leaders around the world attended a two-day CMT or EMT training course, which transitioned to virtual courses in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. These training courses enable attendees to participate in practical exercises combining crisis management best practices, techniques from global academic experts, and expertise from within the company. Our comprehensive trainings incorporate realistic scenarios to successfully translate theoretical training into practical skills. Our initial trainings are also supplemented with refresher trainings and regional  readiness assessments. Subject matter experts provided crisis and  emergency management support to our global organization on an ongoing basis throughout the COVID-19 pandemic response. Emergency Communications Schlumberger maintains communications channels open to the public  to report: • chemical emergency situations, including emergency contact numbers for all our chemical products and for different geographic areas with multiple language options as appropriate • via an e-mail contact option from our public website. For internal reporting, the following options are made available and can be used anonymously: • EthicsLine, available 24/7 with two ways of reporting, by telephone  and using an online report • Using the online QHSE business system’s ethics and compliance  feature or mobile reporting application. Contractor Management An effective and efficient supply chain is essential to Schlumberger’s success. Our overall objective is to maximize value for the company through best-in.class planning, sourcing, and procurement, as achieved through the rigorous use of systematic and integrated processes to select, develop, and manage our supplier base. We work with our contractors in a socially responsible  and ethical manner and continuously seek to improve the way we and our contractors conduct business. Contractor Management Standard Our Contractor Management Standard is aligned with the IOGP industry best practices for managing HSE risks from contracted services. In addition, our supply chain standards and procedures govern how we engage with suppliers and contractors, and we use industry best practices as the global basis for managing the HSE risks from contracted services. Together, these standards set forth a risk-based process to establish compliance with our health and safety contractual terms and conditions, and to: • Identify capable contractors • Prescreen contractors for suitability based on health and safety  performance • Select contractors based on capability and scope-of-work risk assessments • Onboard contractors, including verifying personnel have adequate technical, regulatory, and site-specific health and safety training and associated competences • Manage contractors, including the provision of any specific training  requirements needed to comply with Schlumberger and customer  HSE requirements, processes, and systems. After completing our supplier approval processes, we add newly approved suppliers (including suppliers of contracted services) to a central approved supplier list, which contains information about each supplier, including capability assessments, specific audits, contractual responsibilities (contract mode), and the scope of work that the supplier is qualified to provide to Schlumberger. Our approved supplier list contained 40,200 approved suppliers (including suppliers of contracted services) with whom Schlumberger had a spend in 2020. Contractor HSE Performance Management Schlumberger monitors the HSE performance of its contractors during all phases of our contracts, using various methods: • We enable proactive reporting of hazardous situations (including any near-miss events) and take action where necessary to correct the situation. • We encourage the reporting of at-risk behaviors and immediately provide coaching to correct such behaviors. • We positively report and reinforce safe behaviors. • We regularly hold formal meetings with the management of suppliers that provide us contracted services to discuss the contractor’s performance and agree on any actions needed for continuous service improvement. We also hold informal meetings with contracted service providers. In total, we recorded more than 6,700 meetings with service providers and contractors in our online QHSE business system in 2020. During 2020, more than 27,800 contractors contributed to Schlumberger’s overall safety performance. Our contractor Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) was 0.37 per million workhours, consistent with our combined  employee and contractor LTIFR of 0.36 per million workhours. As of December 2020, more than 8,600 contractors were registered to use Schlumberger’s global online QHSE business system. Our contractors are required to follow all Schlumberger HSE programs while working at a  Schlumberger-controlled facility unless they have an equivalent HSE program with roles and responsibilities defined in a contractual agreement with us. Contractor Audits In 2020, Schlumberger recorded 363 Critical Supplier Audits. Additionally,  as part of standard field inspections and audits of our operations, suppliers and contractors were included 4,966 times. As an example, we conducted 249 land transport contractor prescreening audits in alignment with the  IOGP industry best practice for land transport contractor assessments  (IOGP Report 365). Contractor Training In 2020, Schlumberger contactors had more than 368,500 valid training  certifications registered in the company’s online QHSE business system.  Applicable contractors are included in our New Employee Safety Training (NEST) program, which provides critical safety training to manage new employees’ increased HSE risks. We also have specific NEST trainings for short-term contracted employees. Additional details about our HSE training programs are in the section of this report titled “HSE Training” (p. 38). Injury Prevention Schlumberger is committed to injury prevention for employees and contractors through effective implementation of safety best practices and training.  Our risk-based Injury Prevention Standard details the controls required to  minimize risk of workplace injuries related to stepping, handling, manual lifting, and working with machinery, equipment, and tools. We also provide injury prevention training to new employees within the first month of  employment, along with annual refresher coaching supported by 393 trainers and 29 master trainers around the globe. In 2020, more than 90,000 employees and contractors were certified at Level 1 training and more than 59,000 were certified at Level 2 training (accompanied by a Commentary Task Assessment conducted by a trained coach). We have also implemented our global Schlumberger Warm Up to Work  program across the company. Warm Up to Work was designed to improve  the health and well-being of our workforce and increase awareness about  the importance of injury prevention at the workplace. This program includes exercises for workshop and field personnel to warm up their muscles and increase flexibility and the range of motion of joints. For office personnel, it includes a series of stretching exercises to help prevent neck, shoulder, and back discomfort. The program also has an interactive website with short  videos demonstrating how to perform the exercises correctly and other resources available in nine languages. As shown in the charts at left, approximately half of our 2020 total recordable injury (TRI) and lost time injury (LTI) occurrences involved injuries to fingers, hands, and arms. To address these types of injuries, we identified various hands-free work aids to reduce direct exposure to these body parts and then implemented them worldwide. To mitigate the severity of hand and finger injuries, we regularly review improvements in high-impact glove technology, and we incorporate pilot testing of new types of gloves to improve the level of protection, fit, and comfort. Communication programs and initiatives  promoting hand and finger safety continue to be a focus area for our global injury prevention campaigns and local initiatives. In 2020, we launched  “Focused and Aware”, a new hand and finger injury prevention campaign,  and by year-end more than 1,200 employees had participated in the campaign. LTI Employee and Contractor  Total Recordable Injuries  Injuries by Body Part Affected, 2020 by Body Part Affected, 2020 Mechanical Lifting and Dropped Objects Both the company and the oil and gas industry as a whole recognize mechanical lifting and dropped objects as posing risks for fatalities and serious injuries. As a result, we investigate and review all incidents involving any injury as well as high-potential events with or without any injury. We share lessons learned internally using our HSE Alerts process and incorporate them into our applicable company standards, trainings, and HSE communication resources. In 2020, mechanical lifting-related injuries accounted for 5% of our TRI. Dropped objects related to 7% of our 2020 TRI. Of the combined TRI for mechanical lifting and dropped objects, 45% of injuries involved hands, arms, and fingers, and 31% involved legs, feet, and toes. In 2020, Schlumberger personnel entered nearly 142,000 proactive Risk  Identification Reports (RIRs) relating to mechanical lifting and dropped objects into our global online QHSE business system. We continue to focus on effective management of dynamic dropped objects and restricted access Red Zones, proactive risk identification reporting, and the implementation of hands-free lifting techniques and tools. Mechanical lifting operations on rig sites often involve multiple parties, particularly during rig-up, rig-down, and rig-move activities. Maintaining adequate control of operations on rig sites is a key focus for Schlumberger because rig sites account for proportionately higher rates of mechanical lifting incidents involving injuries compared to other working environments. The Schlumberger Mechanical Lifting Standard sets forth various control measures to designate and delineate the parties’ responsibilities, including a Schlumberger-designated lifting crew for any operation that involves the use of a mobile crane. The lifting crew comprises a person in charge, appliance operator, and banksman or slinger or signaler, and all crew members are required to be deemed competent and appropriately trained for their roles. Another key injury prevention focus for Schlumberger relates to contractors that supply us with mechanical lifting services and equipment. In 2020, approximately 33% of the company’s mechanical lifting-related recordable injuries involved contractors. Our Mechanical Lifting Standard (in accordance with our Contractor Management Standard) requires that all contractors  involved in mechanical lifting activities be prescreened for safety performance and audited prior to onboarding. Our site and country mechanical lifting  experts participate in these contractor audits to confirm that contracted equipment and services meet both Schlumberger requirements and any  applicable regulatory requirements. In 2020, we continued various global awareness campaigns focused on  preventing injuries during mechanical lifting operations, which covered  mitigation measures such as: • Avoiding being in the “line of fire” • Loading and unloading of vehicles • Managing areas where personnel may be  exposed to dropped object hazards • Using barriers • Inspecting slings, and assessing worksite practices for rigging and slinging • Using hands-free lifting tools • Using high-impact gloves. Driving Safety Road traffic incidents are ranked by the World Health Organization among  the top 10 causes of fatalities worldwide, and reports from the IOGP indicate that driving-related incidents have historically been a significant cause of fatalities in upstream operations. In 2020, 3% of our TRI and 4% of our LTI were associated with land transport activities. In 2020, our driving safety focus continued to be on journey management, the implementation of new technologies to improve driver performance, and driver training. Our comprehensive driver management system, together  with our Driving Policy and Driving and Journey Management Standard, consolidate best practices to systematically reduce or eliminate accidents through training, journey, and trip management, safe driving behavior, and compliance with Our Code of Conduct. Our risk-based approach provides effective management of driving activities in the countries where we operate. Journey Management and Data Analytics Our Journey Management Centers around the world reinforce safe driving  behaviors and deliver increased support for our drivers during each journey. The centers verify each trip for compliance with our journey management procedures, with higher-risk driving environments subject to more stringent controls and standards. These centers serve every country in which we  operate with real-time journey tracking in 15 languages, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Through these centers, we monitor driving behavior using real-time tracking and provide immediate feedback to our drivers. The centers use data analytics to define, measure, and shape driving behaviors and to  develop initiatives that help our drivers continuously improve their performance. New Technology to Improve Driving Safety We analyze global event data to identify, develop, and implement targeted innovative solutions to improve driving safety through driver engagement and vehicle enhancements. Our driving performance app utilizes sensors in the driver’s mobile device to enable the recognition of vehicle movement. Drivers are provided with a customized dashboard and immediate feedback on their driving performance to identify personalized areas of improvement. This app is easy to deploy, promoting driver engagement with immediate in-vehicle feedback to increase personal awareness of driving performance and  identify any hazardous behaviors. The app has been deployed for use by  our employees and contractors and, on request, it has been extended to include Schlumberger family members. Another technology implemented to improve driving performance on  Schlumberger-owned vehicles is an advanced driver-assistance system.  This technology enhances vehicle safety systems and reduces human error  by alerting the driver to maximum speed limits and lane departures, as well  as the proximity of pedestrians and other vehicles to prevent collisions. Overall feedback from Schlumberger drivers on these driver aid systems has been positive. Even where these technologies provide drivers with just a few more seconds of reaction time, their earlier awareness of potential hazards allows drivers to react more quickly to prevent collisions and potentially save lives. Driver Training Every Schlumberger driver, from field to office, is required to complete regular fit-for-purpose driver training, including the use of simulators and driver- improvement monitors to provide real-time, in-vehicle driving performance feedback. Personnel who drive on company business receive both practical and theoretical training from qualified and skilled master trainers. Across all our driving training facilities, we incorporate scenarios designed to provide trainees with advanced skills, such skid pan, emergency steering, head-on collision avoidance, and off-road recovery. Driving simulators also enable drivers to practice their skills on a variety of road types facing different climatic and environmental conditions, in a safe and controlled manner. We reinforce this regular training with a commentary drive, during which a trained assessor reviews and assesses each driver’s skills on public roads, as part of our ongoing driver training certification requirements. In 2020, we transitioned to use technology to review driver performance on an ongoing basis. In 2020, Schlumberger had more than 36,800 certified drivers globally. Standard Training Course Duration Candidate Light Vehicle Training 3 days Drivers of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of less than 10,001 lb (also called “light vehicles”) Medium Vehicle Training 6 days Drivers of truck and trailer combination vehicles with a GVWR of 10,001 lb to 26,000 lb Heavy Vehicle Straight 6 days Drivers of straight truck vehicles with a GVWR exceeding 26,000 lb Heavy Vehicle Training 11 days Drivers of tractor and trailer vehicles with a GVWR exceeding 26,000 lb Driver Assessor School 5 days Experienced drivers who will be  performing driver assessments and  in-vehicle skills development and  teaching techniques and conflict  resolution Driver Trainer Assessor 3 days Assessors who will be teaching driving School – Light theory in a classroom setting Driver Theory 8 hours All Schlumberger drivers are required to complete driver theory and advanced skills maneuvers theory training Driver Intensive 5 days Light vehicle drivers who require  additional development of in-vehicle skills Driver Training Simulators Hands-on sessions with qualified instructors enable Schlumberger drivers  to learn and apply practical skills in customized vehicles within the controlled setting of the driving training centers. We also use driver training simulators with multiple vehicle profiles including light, heavy articulated, and  nonarticulated vehicles to enable drivers to practice their basic and  advanced skills in a safe environment. The simulators provide drivers with  the experience of a variety of driving environments, such as suburban,  freeway, mountain, snow, ice, and rain, and the ability to practice a wide range of skills appropriate to minimizing driving hazards, including collision avoidance and skid control. Driving Performance Recognition In 2020, Schlumberger won the Egypt Petroleum Show’s HSE Excellence in Energy Award for “Best Health and Safety Project of the Year,” for our work done in 2019 to modernize driving safety in Egypt through the use of technology. This program involved implementing technology and innovative training with virtual commentary drive skills assessments for company drivers, engagement with land transport contractors and key stakeholders, and road safety  instruction for children. HSE Training We manage, monitor, and record the HSE online training certifications of all Schlumberger employees and more than 8,600 contractors through our global online QHSE business system. In 2020: • The system recorded more than 3.1 million online certifications and logged nearly 4 million training hours, averaging approximately 34 hours of training per individual. • Worldwide, more than 256 certified trainers of our NEST program conducted more than 1,100 NEST classes, providing training to more than  5,300 employees and contractors. Trainers began facilitating NEST  classes virtually in early 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. • More than 200 Schlumberger managers and 2,100 supervisors attended one of our two-day facilitated HSE leadership training courses, which courses transitioned to virtual attendance in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. • Nearly 130 employees were trained in HSE event investigation and nearly 120 were trained in HSE auditing. • Nearly 280 HSE specialists and SET leaders were trained in facilitation techniques. New Employee Safety Training (NEST) A significant proportion of injuries in the oil and gas industry involve personnel with less than one year of service within a company. At Schlumberger, an internal study of historical injury data showed that more than half of our work-related injuries involved employees and contractors with one year of seniority or less. As a result, we identified NEST as a key area of opportunity for improvement in safety performance. All new Schlumberger employees, as well as contractors working under our direct supervision, are required to complete NEST courses covering key HSE topics. NEST uses a blend of innovative learner-centered educational  methodologies to empower new personnel to take ownership of their safety performance by equipping them with a clear understanding of the control measures and mindset required to conduct their work activities safely. NEST uses trained facilitators and incorporates innovative technologies, such as virtual reality, microlearning videos, and mobile apps and gamification, to support some of the key training modules and cater to millennial-preferred learning styles. Leadership Training Our HSE leadership training curriculum is based on employee feedback and surveys to accomplish two key objectives: first, to enable managers and supervisors to develop and maintain a comprehensive understanding of the company’s HSE rules and tools; and second, to assist in leaders expanding their emotional intelligence skills, which we identified as a critical competency for them to effectively drive desired HSE behavior, motivation, and  performance improvements. The HSE leadership program includes facilitated training, as well as  on-demand microlearning tools such as infographics and videos. The majority of classroom time is spent with participants working on team exercises, risk analyses, and presentations related to realistic workplace case studies. Following the formal trainings, we provide managers and supervisors with a variety of materials in multiple languages and different formats to assist them in applying the tools and leadership skills they developed in the classroom. HSEPRO Professional Development Program HSEPRO is a Schlumberger training and development program designed for employees in our HSE function. The program seeks to sustain and further develop our HSE function’s capabilities in supporting operational compliance in an increasingly complex industry and operating environment, as well as developing talent and expanding career opportunities within the company’s HSE community. The program incorporates e-learning, internal and external training classes, personalized coaching, and on the job tasks. These tasks have been designed to develop and demonstrate participants’ HSE knowledge and competency related to general oilfield activities and business line-specific activities and risks. Participants are also required to complete the National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health (NEBOSH) International General Certificate in Occupational Health and Safety or have an equivalent HSE-related bachelor’s degree. In 2020, 430 employees participated in  HSEPRO across more than 50 countries. HSE Communications We maintain and regularly update our global HSE Communication Toolkit, a central online repository for HSE resources in multiple languages. In 2020, we also introduced our Schlumberger SAFE Hub, an online tool to showcase our engagement materials and to communicate ongoing initiatives around HSE leadership, engagement, training and reporting, and compliance. The Schlumberger SAFE Hub and HSE Communication Toolkit contain user-friendly interactive materials to increase personnel engagement with HSE issues and to maximize learning during HSE gatherings. The online resources make more than 4,400 digital assets available to all employees and contractors with access to the internal Schlumberger network. These HSE resources include: • HSE Nudges to help influence employee and contractor behavior • Podcasts sharing HSE communications and best practices from around  the world • Schlumberger SAFE Moments to enhance HSE learning through  short discussions • Instructions for facilitating a Schlumberger SAFE Forum • Videos and presentations to use in safety meetings • Posters and other infographics to prompt HSE-focused discussions  in the workplace. More than 1,300 of these engagement pieces were added to the online  platforms in 2020. We also require every Schlumberger location to develop an HSE  communication plan, designed to ensure that clear, relevant, and appropriate HSE informationis communicated to the different audiences at that location  at appropriate intervals. Health and Safety Nudges Nudge theory is a concept developed in behavioral economics for understanding how people think, make decisions, and behave. Subtle, smart “nudges” can promote and influence safer and healthier behaviors. At Schlumberger, our nudge program reinforces our strong HSE culture and further develops our workforce HSE engagement.  We began introducing HSE Nudges in 2018, and we expanded the nudge program in 2019 by developing and implementing a nudge toolkit across our global HSE operations. Applying nudging techniques has encouraged our workforce to achieve desired HSE behaviors. In 2020, we designed and  released 29 nudges to influence healthy behaviors and safe practices,  including nudges relating to the COVID-19 Life-Saving Rules, environmentally friendly practices, healthy nutrition, and health and pollution awareness. Health and COVID-19 Nudges The nudges relating to our COVID-19 Life-Saving Rules encourage informed and safe choices using visual cues, such as: • Posters in breakrooms and communal spaces reminding personnel to adhere to the COVID-19 Life-Saving Rules • Standard signage for facilities, including floor and elevator door stickers, posters, and other signs directing employees on handwashing techniques, physical distance and masking. In addition, and to help our employees adapt to a new way of working  from home, we released other nudges to support making healthy choices  concerning nutrition and eating habits, such as: • Printable placemats to use in self-service trays or at home that highlight healthier options for portion size and food groups • Visual cues toward healthier snacking for posting in home kitchens or in company break and coffee rooms. Safety Nudges Safety nudges serve as safety reminders, such as: • Posters to remind employees to double-check their PPE • Stickers on vehicle visors and keychains to remind employees to remain vigilant and drive safely • Reflective tape on the back of vehicles to make them stand out and help prevent rear-end collisions. Industry HSE Leadership Schlumberger is an active participant in the development of national and  international standards with industry organizations including the API, ISO, IOGP Standards Committee, and IPIECA. Accordingly, our global HSE  standards incorporate best practice guidance from such organizations as shown in the table below. Schlumberger Standard Best Practice Guidance COVID-19 Management  aligns with  IOGP COVID-19 testing and vaccination position papers  Standard  IOGP-IPIECA Report 605, Pandemic Management in  the Oil and Gas Industry  Driving and Journey  aligns with  IOGP Report 365, Land transportation safety  Management Standard  recommended practice Additionally, land transport  contractor assessments are conducted in  accordance with IOGP requirements  HSE Event Reporting and aligns with IOGP safety data reporting user guide – scope, Management Standard and definitions (updated annually) Personnel and Asset incorporates IOGP Reports on security risk management guidance Security Standard and references (several are referenced) Health Standard references IOGP and IPIECA Reports on health matters (those applicable are referenced) Environmental Standard incorporates IOGP Reports on environmental subject matter and references (several are referenced) Contractor Management  incorporates  Capability assessments and contractor management  Standard  practices as recommended by IOGP Report 423,  HSE Management Guidelines for Working Together in  a Contract Environment, with geophysical operations  conducted in accordance with IOGP Report 432  Mechanical Lifting incorporates IOGP Report 376, Lifting & Hoisting Safety Standard Recommended Practice DROPS Standard incorporates DROPS Forum requirements and best practice guidance Schlumberger HSE   incorporates  IOGP Reports 435 and 452 and others on human  Leadership and Culture  factors and IOGP Report 459, Life-Saving Rules  Campaigns and Tools  Schlumberger Aviation adopts IOGP Report 690, Offshore Helicopter Guidelines Recommended Practices Schlumberger Design incorporates IOGP 454, Human Factors Engineering in Projects for HSE program Schlumberger also has a long-standing commitment to sharing best practices and our HSE technical expertise through industry organizations. In 2020, Schlumberger employees served as vice chairs of IOGP’s standing committees for the environment and safety and as chairs, vice chairs, and active participants of several subcommittees and task forces. Also in 2020, Schlumberger had several panel speakers and technical papers presented at the 2020 SPE International Conference and Exhibition on HSE and Sustainability, some of which were coauthored with industry associations and oil and gas companies. Several Schlumberger senior leaders participated as panel or plenary speakers, and Schlumberger representatives served on the executive committee and  on several discipline organizing committees. Schlumberger personnel also participate in the development of industry best practices in specialist oil  and gas associations, such as through membership on the DROPS global steering committee. Many individual Schlumberger employees are also active members of various international, national, and regional oil and gas trade associations, including: • Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) • IOGP • International Association of Drilling Contractors (IADC) • International Association of Geophysical Contractors • the Center for Offshore Safety (US) • Step Change in Safety (UK) • ARPEL (Latin America and Caribbean region) • Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Association (APPEA) • Norwegian Oil and Gas Association • Netherlands Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Association (NOGEPA). HSE Performance Objectives Schlumberger executive management defines and documents our annual strategic HSE objectives and performance targets. We require that these strategic objectives and performance targets be: • relevant to Schlumberger’s activities, products, and services • consistent with our HSE policies and strategic aims • equal in importance with Schlumberger’s other business performance objectives • implemented and maintained at all organizational levels • clearly communicated • consistent with our commitment to meet or exceed applicable  regulatory requirements and Schlumberger standards where regulations  are not in place • designed to continuously to improve our HSE management system  and HSE performance. We measure these nonzero HSE performance objectives and targets jointly for employee performance and performance by applicable  contractors (in accordance with IOGP guidance), and we cascade them  across the company through geographic- and business line-specific objectives. These objectives, as shown in the table at right, contain a combination of  lagging and leading HSE indicators, which are monitored using our global online QHSE business system. Schlumberger sets internal performance metrics on lagging indicators at  a standard that is higher than required by regulatory or industry lagging  indicator reporting. For example, our TRIR internal metric includes off-duty injuries and illnesses, which are not required to be reported as “work-related” by regulatory authorities, such as OSHA, or industry associations, such as IOGP. In addition, our AARm internal metric includes all motor vehicle  crashes, many of which are not required to be reported as “work-related”  by industry associations. In addition to our company-wide HSE strategic objectives, we also annually set HSE personal objectives for Schlumberger line managers. The purpose  of these personal objectives is to ensure that managers demonstrate high  and visible HSE leadership and promote HSE compliance. For 2020, these objectives were set as follows, with specific targets varying depending on  a manager’s level of operational responsibilities: • between one and four HSE leadership engagement visits per quarter • between six and 12 RIRs completed per quarter • overall training completion rate exceeding 95%. Examples of Schlumberger Non-Zero 2020 HSE Performance Objectives  and Applicable Achievement Levels for Employees and Contractors HSE Indicator Objectives Achievement(1) Total Recordable Incident Rate • We annually set company- per million work hours (internal)(2) wide and geographic-specific • Covers injuries and illnesses TRIR objectives as percentage for employees and applicable improvement compared with contractors(3) prior year’s performance Automotive Accident Rate per • We annually set company- million miles (internal)(2) wide and geographic.• Covers miles driven by employ-specific AARm objectives ees and applicable contractors(3) as percentage improvement compared with prior year’s performance Overall Training Coefficient • We annually set company- • Covers employees and wide and geographic-specific applicable contractors(3) objectives for compliance with required HSE training programs Risk Identification Report Rate • We annually set company- • Covers employees and wide and geographic-specific applicable contractors(3) objectives to increase our risk identification reporting rate • 2020 objective:  27% reduction ACHIEVED • 2020 objective:  12% reduction ACHIEVED • 2020 objective:  Compliance level exceeding 95% overall ACHIEVED • 2020 objective:  more than 48 RIRs  per person ACHIEVED 1 Reflects only company-wide objectives and achievement levels. Geographic- and business line-specific objectives and achievement levels are not reflected. 2 Internal TRIF and AARm metrics reflects all Schlumberger-involved incidents or accidents, as applicable, including incidents that are not required to be recorded by IOGP or OSHA (such as incidents occurring during off-duty hours). As a result, these internal performance metrics do not match our industry-recognized TRIF and AARm figures in the performance data table.   3 “Applicable contractors” refers to the 27,800 contractors whose performance was included in our global QHSE business system as of December 31, 2020.  These contractors are to some degree under Schlumberger’s operational control, and so are included in our safety metrics in accordance with IOGP best practices relating to contractor management (Mode 1 and Mode 2 contractors, as defined in IOGP Report 423). See also the “Contractor Management” section of this report (p. 54 – 55). Performance Data Schlumberger captures HSE performance data through our global online QHSE business system. Accessible by all employees and certain contractors,  this system enables them to monitor reported HSE events, incidents, and observations. We use lagging indicator incident data to benchmark our  performance against industry data sources. The system facilitates the  investigation process and management of remedial work plans and actions  to prevent recurrence. Comprehensive investigations are conducted for  incidents and high-potential events to identify learning opportunities, and  lessons learned are incorporated into improvements of our facilities,  equipment, processes, training, and systems. To promote continuous improvement, Schlumberger personnel are actively  encouraged to report hazardous situations and near misses in RIRs and  observation and intervention reports. Our HSE reporting also benefits from  an HSE reporting app that enables employees to create a report and submit  it to our global system in minutes using their mobile device. In 2020, our  workforce submitted an average of more than 55 HSE reports per person (12% increase from 2019) into our global QHSE system, totaling more than 6.6 million proactive QHSE reports for the year. We use this data to monitor trends and identify areas of concern. Schlumberger employees can also use the system to suggest improvements, post recognitions, track HSE training, and analyze HSE data. The system can be used to assign job-specific HSE training and facilitate and track the testing and certification of computer- based training material. Our industry-recognized 2020 Total Recordable Incident Rate of 0.73 per  million work hours and 2020 Total Recordable Injury Rate of 0.71 per million work hours were each the lowest that Schlumberger has ever recorded. Our industry-recognized AARm improved by 23% year-over-year, from 0.30 in 2019 to 0.23 in 2020. Land transport-related injuries accounted for 3% of all employee and contractor total recordable injuries and 4% of lost time injuries. In 2020, Schlumberger automotive accidents resulted in one contractor  fatality, four lost workday cases and three other recordable injuries to our employees and contractors. Schlumberger continues to focus considerable  efforts on improving driving performance, including through the implementation of new safety technologies. We analyze all motor vehicle crashes to evaluate the effectiveness of the technologies we have implemented. 2020 Incident, Injury, and Illness Rates (industry-recognized) Employees and Contractors     Per Million Workhours (IOGP) Per 200,0000 Workhours (OSHA) Total Recordable Incident Rate 0.73 0.146 Total Recordable Injury Rate 0.71 0.142 Total Recordable Illness Rate 0.0158 0.0032 Employees and Contractors     Per Million Workhours (IOGP) Per 200,0000 Workhours (OSHA) Lost Time Incident Rate 0.37 0.075 Lost Time Injury Rate 0.36 0.073 Lost Time Illness Rate 0.0095 0.0019 The IOGP annually reports upstream oil and gas work-related safety  performance statistics. Schlumberger uses the IOGP definitions and  reporting criteria to classify HSE data. The data include injuries sustained  by company employees and contractors engaged in work-related activities. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) auditors reviewed our processes and  procedures for 2020 and verified a selected subset of our 2020 data. Health and safety data audited for 2020 includes the number of fatalities, employee and contractor lost time injuries and illnesses, and the associated workhours to determine frequencies and rates. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are, in all material respects, fairly presented and in accordance with Schlumberger procedural guidelines. ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Schlumberger is committed to excellence in everything we do, and we strive to maintain the trust and confidence of our customers and stockholders as well as other stakeholders affected by our operations. Our commitment to sound principles of corporate governance and ethics sets the foun.dation of our Sustainability program. Furthermore, our reputation for integrity and fair dealing is vitally important in winning and retaining the trust of our stakeholders. When we are clearly seen to behave in an ethical manner, we enhance our reputation for integrity, which helps us attract and retain customers and employees. We believe that to succeed, we must draw on the foundations that preserve our identity and establish the direction we must follow. This means understanding what defines us as a company, recognizing how we behave toward others, and defining how we approach our work. Our Blue Print documents are designed to help our workforce accomplish this. The Blue Print—Our Identity summarizes our purpose, ambitions, and values, expressing the mindset we need to succeed. The Blue Print in Action—Our Code of Conduct applies to all Schlumberger directors, officers, employees, security providers, and contractors. It is designed to help every employee and contractor handle business situations professionally and fairly. Our Code of Conduct also explains how individual actions reflect on the company and how the company is, therefore, the sum of our actions. In addition, Ethics and Compliance (E&C) training throughout an employee’s career at Schlumberger focuses on the E&C risks they might encounter during their various roles. Members of our workforce, including full-time and part-time employees and contract workers, are required to complete E&C training on an annual basis or more frequently as appropriate. In 2020, 88% of our workforce completed Code of Conduct and anticorruption training. Schlumberger E&C training materials are regularly updated to maintain effectiveness and include relevant lessons from internal investigations or audits. The training materials are also modified to target the risks and needs of a specific audience. Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report We seek to verify adherence to our Code of Conduct through, among other things, annual E&C risk assessments, compliance-focused audits led by our global internal audit department, and local legal resources and financial  controllers in the regions where we operate. Business Ethics Acting ethically involves more than simply complying with laws and  regulations. It involves recognition that our decisions affect others.  By keeping this in mind, we earn the respect, trust, and confidence of  our stakeholders. By doing things right the first time, every time, we  enhance our reputation for integrity with these stakeholders. Antibribery and Anticorruption Schlumberger does not obtain a business advantage through bribery,  improper payments, or any other illegal means. Our Code of Conduct prohibits all employees and contractors from offering, paying, soliciting, or accepting bribes in any form or under any circumstance, including facilitation payments. In addition, payments to government officials are forbidden. Bribery is defined as giving or receiving an undue reward to influence  the behavior or decision of a government official, client, or contractor. A facilitation payment is defined as giving anything of value to a government official to secure or expedite routine (nondiscretionary) government action for something to which the payor is legitimately entitled. Schlumberger’s anticorruption program includes a well-defined anticorruption policy, as outlined in our Code of Conduct, as well as supporting internal  controls, and applies to all of our operating locations and geographies as  well as our employees, contractors, suppliers, and agents. Our E&C function manages enforcement of the policy and related internal controls, with  oversight from the Board and its Nominating & Governance Committee.  We review the governance and effectiveness of our anticorruption program at least annually. Our E&C function is led by our global Legal Director, Governance and Integrity, and staffed by a team of E&C professionals dedicated to specific subject matter and business units relevant to our global operations, facilitating a cohesive approach to mitigating corruption risk. Our E&C team uses training, communications, audits, and risk management tools to effectively implement our anticorruption program in the countries where we operate. The E&C team leverages our internal systems to identify real-time anticorruption red flags  by applying a risk-based approach. Schlumberger uses a well-established accountability program to identify and remediate in a timely manner any anticorruption policy deviations. By identifying, tracking and mitigating these policy deviations, we gain valuable lessons learned and are able to focus on continuous improvement of our best practices. Schlumberger also maintains a robust allegation and incident review program, consisting of a confidential and anonymous EthicsLine hotline (including  online reporting options), which supports independent review of employee grievances, as outlined in our Code of Conduct and in our Human Rights  Position Statement. Our E&C function investigates any corruption allegations, and following any such investigation, corrective measures, disciplinary actions, or both may be taken, in order to apply established and consistent accountability and discipline, as appropriate. Additionally, lessons learned are identified from the investigations and are communicated within the company. Revenue generated from the 20 countries identified by Transparency  International as having the lowest rankings in its 2020 Corruption Perceptions Index represented (on a combined basis) less than 5% of Schlumberger’s consolidated worldwide 2020 revenue. Supply Chain Management Schlumberger maintains zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, and we expect the same from our contractors, suppliers, and agents. We require that they comply with the laws of the countries in which they operate and that they act in a socially responsible and ethical manner consistent with our Code of Conduct and our anticorruption policies. All suppliers, contractors, and agents must be approved and managed in accordance with internal requirements, including through denied party screening. Agents are processed using a risk-based approach through compliance due diligence using the Dow Jones’ Risk Center Third Party Platform, both before they can be approved for use and through continuous monitoring. We also conduct audits to promote compliance with these requirements. Finally, we support responsible sourcing of materials from suppliers that share our values, and we commit to avoid using conflict minerals in our sourcing activities. Employee Whistleblower Protection Employees who believe that a violation of our Code of Conduct has occurred are required to report their concerns internally using any available channel  of communication, including by reporting to their manager, to another person in the human resources, legal, finance, E&C or other appropriate function,  or anonymously by reporting through our third-party administered EthicsLine or online portal. Schlumberger prohibits retaliation for good faith reporting of known and suspected violations of our Code of Conduct, our internal requirements, and applicable laws. Reporting options and the prohibition against retaliation are consistently emphasized in E&C training, and managers are regularly trained on the proper manner to receive and handle employee complaints. Any employee who intentionally reports false information will be subject to disciplinary action. Conflicts of Interest Conflicts between personal interests and the interests of Schlumberger  or its customers may arise if an employee has personal, social, financial,  political, or other interests that could interfere with his or her responsibilities as a Schlumberger employee. To avoid such conflicts of interest, employees are prohibited from holding financial stakes in companies that do business with Schlumberger. We require that employees put Schlumberger business  interests first, disclose all potential conflicts of interest, and avoid situations that create even the appearance of a conflict of interest. Where conflicts arise, employees are required to disclose the potential conflicts and obtain written approval from an appropriate Schlumberger controller. 