COMPANY AT A GLANCE Schlumberger (SLB: NYSE) is a technology company that partners with customers to access energy. Our people, representing over 160 nationalities, are providing leading digital solutions and deploying innovative technologies to enable performance and sustainability for the global energy industry. With expertise in more than 120 countries, we collaborate to create technology that unlocks access to energy for the benefit of all. Find out more at slb.com. Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report Safety Improvement TRIF (Total Recordable Injury Frequency) numbers in 2020 Annual Report are based  on an internal definition. TRIF numbers herein are based on the IOGP definition. Social Education Engagements >2,000 Engagements 105,00 YouthImpacted Youth Impacted 1.2Per Employee Environmental Emissions Reduction 19% Scope 1 + 2 27% Scope 3 Net 2050 Zeroby Governance Sustainability in management cash incentives USD 35 million in local sustainability efforts 86,000+ Number of Employees Worldwide 160+ Nationalities 120+ Countries MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS Aligned with our corporate vision to define and drive high performance sustainably, we are committed to making continued measurable progress. Since our last report, some of our highlights include: Local Teams.” Our approach to climate change and energy transition includes decarbonizing the oil and gas value chain and investing in low-carbon energy. I was extremely proud this year to set a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions commitment that includes our entire value chain. We also launched our Transition Technology portfolio, which will contribute to reducing oil and gas operator emissions. We have opened a new chapter in the company’s history with Schlumberger New Energy, our portfolio of ventures and partnerships across new energy sectors, with companies who share our ambition for a more sustainable future. Because sustainability and strategy are tightly linked,  we added members to our Board of Directors with  expertise in domains relevant to energy transition and created a new position—Chief Strategy & Sustainability Officer—on the leadership team. The knowledge they In the past year, we strengthened our sustainability commitment and accelerated our actions, and I am pleased to share our  vision and the progress we have made. Sustainability is an  important part of our history and a critical element of our future, and we have made definitive strides in our key focus areas of “Taking Climate Action,” “Creating Opportunity,” and “Empowering bring to our company will help guide us as we lead the industry toward a more sustainable energy future. I am excited about the path ahead for Schlumberger. It is a path full of opportunity, now and for years to come. We choose to play a key role in helping the world meet future energy demand as we continue developing solutions to address climate change. With our strength in technology innovation, and the determination and optimism of our people, we create amazing technology that unlocks  Chief Executive Officer Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF STRATEGY & SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER It is a pleasure to share with you for the first time my perspective on sustainability in Schlumberger. As someone who is passionate about the power of technology to drive positive change, I came to Schlumberger confident that we will be a sustainability leader, not only based on our culture of governance and social responsibility, but also by being at the leading edge of energy transition through technology innovation. I strongly believe that we must all be committed to a The corporate strategy for the next five years is robust, net-zero future to avoid the worst effects of climate and I am excited to drive the extension of this  change. The oil and gas sector has a critical role to  strategy into the medium-to-longer term, where  play in the transition, which makes building a more  sustainability and our decarbonization expertise will  efficient and sustainable industry the business imperative continue to evolve and solve global energy challenges. for the coming decade. I am proud to be with Schlumberger on this journey to a more sustainable future.  Schlumberger has a long and rich history of innovating and reinventing,  based on our people and our culture The corporate strategy that Schlumberger set into motion rooted in science and technology. This is an exciting time two years ago recognized the need to drive resilience for the company and the wider industry. Sustainability is a key aspect of that resilience, and it is essential to embrace sustainability at the core of our strategy and in everything we do. I see energy technology companies such as ours actively shaping energy transition toward a decarbonized future. Chief Strategy & Sustainability Officer OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY As a leading energy service company, we are committed to being at the forefront of our industry’s shift toward more sustainable energy production—challenging not only ourselves, but also our customers, suppliers, and peers to partner on delivering measurable social and  environmental progress. This translates into making measurable strides to accelerate innovation in energy transition and achieving these goals in a way that contributes to energy access and economic development with both a global and local lens. In that context, our sustainability focus for the near-to-medium term has three components: TAKING CLIMATE ACTION CREATING OPPORTUNITY • Getting to Net Zero • Regional and local technology capability • Investing in energy transition • Diversity as a competitive advantage • Managing climate and transition risk Our strategic approach to these focus areas is described in detail in this report. In each case, we seek to leverage our unique capabilities, invest in technology and innovation, rely on strategic partnerships, and engage the entire Schlumberger organization to achieve our sustainability goals. Emissions reduction and gender balance targets have been incorporated into the management cash incentive. Delivering on our ambitions  represents a substantial opportunity for the company in the coming decade, while enabling us to play a role in helping close UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) gaps in cooperation with communities where we operate. Disclosures covering our broad sustainability programs can be found in the “ESG Disclosures and Performance Data” section of our Sustainability Report. KEY SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORKS WE USE • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards • Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Recommendations • U.N. Sustainable Development Goals • U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Reporting Framework EMPOWERING LOCAL TEAMS • Locally defined UN SDGs focus • Technology mapped to UN SDGs Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report With the COVID-19 pandemic at the forefront of decisions made in 2020 and 2021, Schlumberger demonstrated global efforts focused on putting people and safety at the center of everything we do—a representation of sustainability in action. Because we had identified pandemics as one of our enterprise-level risks prior to the outbreak of COVID-19, we were able to take a proactive approach to our response—quickly implementing a comprehensive outbreak management plan and adapting our work practices. Our approach does not stop at the site or the office door—our initiatives also contributed to the safety of the people in the communities where we live and work. Among efforts we are most proud of are • COVID-19 Management Standard published internally and shared  with the global oil and gas industry association for advancing  environmental and social performance (IPIECA), International  Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Society of Petroleum  Engineers (SPE), customers, and suppliers • Schlumberger SAFE COVID-19 app rolled out to workforce • Protective equipment, sanitizer, air-purifying equipment,  temperature-screening equipment, testing, and symptom-monitoring devices distributed globally • Local manufacturing capability utilized to deliver hand sanitizer and  3D printed face shield components to communities • COVID-19 workforce training completed by 89,000 people • IT infrastructure upgraded and guidance issued to accommodate  • Multidisciplinary steering committee created in addition to local and teleworking and well-being corporate crisis management teams • Nine COVID-19 Life-Saving Rules introduced in 11 languages • 80% positive employee satisfaction score achieved on our pandemic • Employee assistance program access broadened globally to help with response in a recent engagement survey mental health and stress • Flexible work at scale and new work model introduced to enhance • Approximately 1,100 HSE For Youth workshops held virtually to teach employee experience and drive business performance. children and families about COVID-19 OUR COMMITMENTS 30%reduction* in Scopes 1 & 2 by 2025 50%reduction* in Scopes 1 & 2 by 2030 30%reduction* in Scope 3 by 2030 Net Zero by 2050 *versus 2019 emissions baseline ROAD MAP TO NET ZERO 2019 