Our purpose is to 
create amazing technology that unlocks access to energy, for.the benefit of all.>150New technologies introduced across the portfolio over the past three years>30%Year-on-year revenue growth for our Transition Technologies portfolio in 202281%Increase in GAAP EPS year-on-year; 70%Êgrowth in EPS excluding charges andÊcredits 99,000Employees>70Our more than 70 global technology centers drive innovation each day>100We have a global footprint in more than 100 countries and employees representing almost twice as many.nationalities>85We recruited in more than 85 countries inÊ202223%Revenue growth vs 2021As innovators, thatÕs been our mission for..simultaneously reducing emissions while meetingthe worldÕs growing energy demands.WeÕre working on the answers. Every day,.on decarbonizing the fossil fuel industry, whileinnovating a new energy landscape.ItÕs what drives us. Ensuring progress for people andthe planet, on the journey to net zero and beyond.For a balanced planet.SLB at a glanceFor a balanced planetWe are delivering innovation at speed and scale across the 
energy landscape. Paving a path to net zero and beyond.Our three engines of growth:CoreAbsent a major market disruption, we maintain the view that upstream spending is very resilient and decoupled from near-term demand. We foresee capital investment continuing to grow at double-digit compound annual growth rate (CAGR) in the upstream sector for years ahead across Middle East, North America Land, and Offshore basins. This represents a very favorable backdrop to SLB market positions and will continue to support our ambition 
for outperformance in this upcycle.DigitalThe quest for capital efficiency, asset teamsÕ productivity, and cycle-time reduction requires digital transformation in our industry. We continue to expand our digital market position and deliver a high rate of revenue growth and highly accretive margin results.New EnergyThe size of the energy transition opportunity is immense for SLB. The rate of market growth is very significant. We are building a broad, diverse portfolio across New Energy sectors, selected for their materiality and adjacency to our existing market strengths, and where we can offer technology differentiation.>1,500Software customers+20%*Expected increase in energy demand by 2050>85%Top 100 oil and gas producers
use ourÊsoftware-25 GtCO2*Required annual reduction in industrial and power-related emissions to achieve net zeroUPSTREAM OIL AND GAS INVESTMENT 2021-2025Source: SLB analysis, Rystad, S&P, IEA.>$550B$347B2xExpected digital revenue growth
from 2021-2025>$700BEstimated total addressable market20212025(estimated)*Source: IEA 2022.CEO and CSSO Introduction2022 HIGHLIGHTS 
>700,000 T CO2e 
avoided emissions using our impact quantification methodology, our Transition Technologiesª saved more than 700,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions for our customersÕ operations in 2022

Peer-leading ESG
customer sentiment as measured in our industryÕs most 
recognized third-party survey

45% improvement in total recordable injury frequency 
rate from 2019
Emissions intensity 
improvement in Scopes 1 and 2

2022 Peer-leading ESG.Ratings 	MSCI AA	Sustainalytics 22.2, Medium Risk Rating

Board Sustainability Competencies 91% of the Board at year-end 2022 self.identified having substantial knowledge, skills,.or experience in energy transition and.sustainability matters

Women comprised 
30% of executive team at year-end 2022, and represented 
23.8% of all salaried positionsDrivingimpactOlivier Le PeuchChief Executive OfficerDr. Katharina BeumelburgChief Strategy and 
Sustainability OfficerThe balanced planet. ItÕs an idea around which 
weÕve centered our entire brand. But how can we 
get there? And how can driving energy innovation deliver on this commitment? The worldÕs energy mix must transform into one that can continue to meet demand safely, securely, and reliably while decarbonizing for the future. At the same time, we arenÕt ready to fully transition from our existing energy infrastructure. We must continue to deliver supply for a growing world by decarbonizing oil and gas today as we innovate the new energy systems of tomorrow.These arenÕt easy challenges, and they canÕt be solved alone. Achieving balance will require new and diverse investments, collaboration, and support across all energy systems, and the energy industry must be a key contributor. As an industry, we have repeatedly demonstrated the ability to solve complex challenges, and with our experience, knowledge, and scale, no one is better suited or more strongly motivated to lead this next chapter. The effects of climate change are accelerating, and we view the energy transition as a key strategic priority; itÕs not only the right thing to do, but also crucial to ensuring the long-term resilience of our business.At SLB, we have placed the global energy challenge at the heart of who we are, and to solve it, we are embedding sustainability in everything we do. In 2022, we announced a bold new brand identity, SLB, centered on driving the global shift to sustainable energy production. As a technology leader and an energy-innovator, we find this challenge exciting. WeÕre setting ambitious goals to deliver measurable social and environmental progress, and weÕre partnering with customers, suppliers, and peers to accelerate our impact. After building our strategy in 2021, we shaped a culture to support it, rooting each of our core values in sustainability, and spent the past year operationalizing our ambitions and delivering strong results across our three priorities: Climate Action, People, and Nature. We are executing on roadmaps to decarbonize operations and achieve net-zero emissions, while providing in-country value, respecting human rights, and fully embracing all aspects of diversity, equity, and inclusion. Oil and gas operations comprise around 10% of global energy-related emissions. As the first company in the energy services industry to include Scope 3 emissions in our 2050 net zero target, we are making a significant impact throughout the value chain, not only increasing our operational efficiency, but also developing new technologies to help our customers optimize their environmental footprint. And we continue to leverage our global scale with localized expertise to deploy custom sustainability solutions in each of our operating areas. Throughout the last century, the energy industry fueled growth, ideas, and progress for all of humanity; now it must fuel change. Together, we will pave the way to a balanced planet through better practices, innovative technology, and the commitment to help others across the globe on their sustainability journey. We are proud of the success we have achieved and look forward to continuing our strong momentum in the years ahead.Olivier Le Peuch Chief Executive OfficerCEO and CSSO Introduction continuedThroughout the last century, the energy industry fueled growth, ideas, and progress for all of humanity; now it must fuel change.Dr. Katharina BeumelburgChief Strategy and 
Sustainability OfficerOur cultureTechnologyBecause our passion for exploring enables us to solve the worldÕs energy challenges. PeopleBecause our exceptional and
diverse people are the pulse and spirit of who we are. PerformanceBecause together, we deliver outstanding results to build a sustainable future. We are pioneersWe act with integrityWe are safeWe innovate togetherWe deliver today 
and tomorrowWe are inclusiveWe experiment, 
learn and growWe respect work 
and personal lifeWe focus on what matters mostOur values help drive our 
commitment to sustainability.Our people bring our brand to lifeÑenabling us to deliver sustainable impact now and tomorrow. We look to three core values that guide the decisions we make as we pursue our ambitions. We are proud of our strong culture which anchors our values and embeds sustainability even deeper into SLB.	People are at the heart of our business. We are committed to promoting diversity, equity and inclusion. Across the world weÕre building a truly diverse workforce, safeguarding mental health and wellbeing, and endeavoring to create more inclusive environments Ñin the workplace, in our supply chains, and in the communities where we work and.live.	As well as being part of our DNA, technology and innovation are key enablers of our sustainability framework. From invention to application, our.technologies enable safer, more efficient, and.more sustainable operations for both ourselves and our.customers. 	We leverage sustainability as a key performance benchmark, as we believe performance is about more than just financial results.IN FOCUSOur approachto sustainabilityThe carbon budget curveThe carbon budget curve shows the reduction in CO2e emissions needed over the coming century to limit the global rise in temperature to only 1.5 degC, as set by the Paris Agreement. Climate change projections show that the world will reach the budget for this target just eight years from nowÑin 2030. That means we must balance the emissions of the next few decades with sustained net negative carbon actions beyond 2050, to protect ourselves and the planet. Learn more here.For a Balanced PlanetThe world is facing its greatest balancing act: how to provide reliable, accessible, and affordable energy while rapidly decarbonizing for a sustainable future. As a global technology company, driving energy innovation for a balanced planet, SLB has a powerful role to play in reducing emissions across many industries while scaling new energy systems to help meet demand. And weÕre ready to rise to the challenge.We are the industry leader driving innovation in our oil and gas core. A key aspect of our innovation efforts is our commitment to decarbonizing our operations and those of our customers. We are a data solutions provider in the energy domain and beyond with our digital business, which helps drive performance, efficiency, and sustainability. We are a technology solutions provider that develops and scales the new energy systems of tomorrow. As a symbol of our commitment to the challenge ahead, weÕve based our new identity on the carbon budget curveÑthe maximum net global CO2 emissions permissible to limit global warming to 1.5ÊdegC. Our logo represents the journey we have committed to and that we support for our customers. Our curve represents the journey to net zero and beyond, to bring balance back to the planet.Our sustainability reporting is guided by our stakeholders and third-party frameworks, including	Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 	Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) 	UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)	UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Reporting Framework.Our approach to sustainability continuedSustainability FrameworkBalanced Sustainability PrioritiesOur sustainability strategy is focused on where we believe we can make the biggest impact for our company, our stakeholders, and society. Our.priorities are climate action, people, and nature. Supporting our priorities are our enablersÑrobust governance and empowering local initiativesÑand our acceleratorsÑ technology innovation, and.partnerships.We are scaling our in.country value investments and our local partnerships to drive positive actions in support of the UN SDGs. We are doing this with a significant focus on affordable and clean energy, to have a greater impact where we live and work and in support of a just transition. We have also accelerated our journey through technology, innovation, and the right partnerships to take significant steps to reduce Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.In 2022, within each priority, we have taken the next step of operationalizing sustainability throughout our company, as illustrated by the following examples:	We are empowering our local teams to take ownership of their sustainability strategies enabled by learning and development opportunities and a capital allocation program. Employees from more than 50 countries submitted almost 300 projects to the Sustainability Impact Awards representing 
an investment of over USD 25 million in.2023.	We have incentivized our employees by implementing key performance objectives in our compensation programs for Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our field operations and.facilities. 	We have developed an impact quantification methodology to calculate customer avoided emissions which allows us to recognize the value we provide for our.customers. 	Our new product development process has sustainability elements integrated to understand the environmental impact of our technology investments.	We have taken our human rights program to the next level focusing on higher-risk facilities and our supply chain to empower local teams to understand, assess and react to human rights issues. This is complemented by partnering with third-party organizations to assess human rights risk exposure levels.	Our nature priority has evolved with a focus on water stewardship within the company, in our supply chain and within our communities. 	The primary focus of our circularity program is the lifecycle of the tools and products that we design and build. This global initiative is led by the Technology Lifecycle Management Program (TLM). In addition, we are implementing programs at the local level that not only address circularity but also provide opportunities for local economic development. We are focused on scaling the local programs that can provide high-impact sustainability across our.organization.	With our commitment to continuous improvement, we are constantly reviewing ways to enhance our overall governance framework. An important part of this framework is our enterprise risk mapping program that identifies material risks that could impact our strategy. In 2022, we conducted an AI-enabled assessment of potential ESG risks and stakeholder concerns. Based on this assessment, we have re-committed to our strategic sustainability focuses of Climate Action, People and Nature. Nature	Safeguarding Biodiversity	Protecting Natural Resources	Enabling CircularityPeople	Creating In-Country Value	Respecting Human Rights	Promoting Diversity, Equity, and InclusionClimate Action	Our Roadmap to Net Zero	Decarbonizing Operations	New Energy and Transition OpportunitiesOur accelerators	Technology and Innovation
Navigating the energy transition and getting to net zero by leveraging our technology innovation.	Partnerships
Engaging employees and collaborating with business partners, customers, and the communities in which we live and work to broaden our 
positive impact and expand 
into energy verticals.Our enablers	Governance 
Assuring that we act responsibly and transparently across all operations in our business relationships and supply chain.	Empowering Local Teams
Supporting societies and communities in contributing to the SDGs by understanding local impacts, aligning with local priorities, and accelerating action.Our approach to sustainability continuedSustainability Impact SummaryClimate ActionPeopleNature>700,000 T CO2e avoided emissionswith SLB Transition Technologies91 countries with active sustainability projects Water-stressed areas analysis performed for all SLBÊlocations worldwideUpdated Human Rights.program50% of the research budget dedicated to CCUS, New Energy and oil and gas decarbonization for our UK and US research centers10 water stewardship projectsfor funding in 2023 12% year-on-year improvement in 
gender pay gapSustainability Impact 
Awards createdplatform created to educate 
and validate investment integrity33% of our global Scope.2 consumption represents renewable energy11 water efficiency projectswere awarded for funding in.2023Estimated water savings 
of over 220,000 m3100-fold increase comparing to 202216% Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity reduction55 In-Country Value 
Sustainability Impact Award projects 
for 2023for funding in 202322 community investmentsin 202270% automation achieved for our Scope 1 and 2 measurement workflowsMSCIÕs 10 companies that have published the most thorough corporate decarbonization targets June 2022Circularity Governance led by our Technology Lifecycle Management.Organization53% of Sustainability Impact Award funding allocated to climate action for 2023