SLB 2022 Sustainability ReportClimate ActionSustainability Framework:GovernanceOverviewPeopleContentsSearchPrintBack/ForwardNatureClimate actionFocus areas:Three areas comprise our comprehensive approach to driving energy transition: our roadmap to net zero, decarbonizing customer operations, and new energy and transition opportunities. We are at the forefront of what needs to happen. And we can make it happen.Our Roadmap to Net Zero Our climate action strategy is underpinned by our commitment to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, with interim targets in 2025 and 2030 to track progress aligned with the 1.5 degC target of the Paris Agreement. To achieve these goals across all three scopes of emissions, we are implementing a detailed roadmap of emission reduction actions within each Division and geography and across the short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons. As our net zero commitment is inclusive of our value chain, we are also working with our suppliers to help them reduce their emissions footprint. Decarbonizing Customer Operations Along with reducing our emissions footprint across our own operations, we are working to help our customers decarbonize their operations and avoid additional GHG emissions. Investing in New Energy and 
Transition Opportunities Accelerating the transition to low-carbon 
energy while meeting global energy demand requires innovative and forward-thinking actions. Finding alternatives to carbon-intensive energy sources is not a task to be taken lightly. Our portfolio of New Energy solutions represents a balanced approach to industry decarbonization and clean energy scalability. In 2022, we evolved our brand—putting climate action at the center of our strategy, reflecting who we are as a global technology company driving energy innovation for a balanced planet. Our vision is to define and drive high performance and sustainability by sharing the responsibility to act now and.to act fast to decarbonize the.world’s.energy system. Decarbonization is a pressing obligation that transcends climate projections and goals. Urgency is key, because decarbonizing the planet is an ambitious and complex task. In 2021, we announced our commitment to reach net zero emissions by 2050, with interim science-based targets to track progress. We were the first company in the energy services industry to include Scope 3 emissions in.our 2050 net zero target. Today, close to 80% of our top 50 customers have made a net zero commitment. The journey to net zero is one that we will.support for both our existing customers, and new customers in different industries. Our Roadmap	to Net ZeroOur Roadmap to Net Zero SLB is committed to achieving net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 aligned with the 1.5 degC target of the Paris Agreement.30% reduction in Scopes 1 and 2 by 2025 50% reduction in Scopes 1 and 2 by 2030 30%reduction in Scope 3 by 2030 Net Zero by 2050 All reduction targets are measured against our 2019 baselineWe reduced our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions intensity as compared to 2021 by 16% In 2022, we developed and launched an overarching strategy to reduce our carbon emissions and energy use across our value chain.Central to this was our comprehensive digital platform for greenhouse gas tracking that provides the visibility we need to prioritize and take action across our businesses. An internally developed digital dashboard enables us to improve our data collection, connect our business systems, and track our progress. This was a critical tool in monitoring our progress towards our Scope 1 and 2 key.performance objectives (KPOs) in 2022.Scope 1 and 2In 2022, we worked with teams across our geographies to build detailed roadmaps to net zero, focused on reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions generated in our operations and facilities, ensuring steady progress and consistent measurement.Through our internal digital platform, operations teams were able, for the first time, to track key sources of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions and act in real time. This visibility and associated actions are key reasons why our Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity per US dollar of revenue decreased by 16% from 2021 to 2022. Reducing GHG emissions in field operations In 2022, our geography net zero roadmaps highlighted the importance of taking action on key sources of fuel use in our field operations. Our strategy is to focus on operational efficiency, electrification, job design for fuel intensive services, and low-carbon fuel alternatives. Reducing and consolidating trips, engine idling campaigns, and planning and logistics are key actions taken to improve operational efficiency. Electrification opportunities for light vehicles and equipment have been assessed in 2022 and action plans prioritized based on impact, availability, and infrastructure. Job design for.higher emission services such as stimulation can play an important role in the overall emissions released during the job. Often there are different options such as alternate technologies or techniques to reduce the overall fuel consumption of the operations while still achieving our client’s objective. Low-carbon fuels such as bio diesel, ethanol, or synthetic fuels can offer lower carbon emissions while still using the original internal combustion engines in the vehicle or operational equipment. A pilot 
of biofuels has been completed in Brazil in 2022. In 2023, we will continue to focus on our emission estimation accuracy, frequency, and visibility with a specific focus on fuel used for field CO2e.Reducing GHG Emissions in Our Facilities To reduce GHG emissions from our facilities, we are focused on enhancing energy efficiency, reducing energy consumption and switching to renewable power. To achieve these goals, we have implemented several initiatives, including: 	utilizing smart meters for real-time energy data capture to detect opportunities for energy optimization	encouraging and driving behavioral changes among our population to promote energy efficiency and drive energy savings	collaborating with energy consultants to undertake extensive energy audits aimed at identifying long-term opportunities for reducing energy consumption	conducting energy efficiency upgrades to our facilities, such as optimizing heating and cooling cycles, and upgrading HVAC systems and insulation	prioritizing the procurement of renewable energy sources to power our facilities, utilizing both onsite and offsite options.By the end of 2022, our renewable power accounted for more than 33% of our facilities’ overall electricity consumption, which is equivalent to roughly 260,000 MWh. This figure includes green tariffs in regions such as the US, Europe, India and Brazil, as well as onsite generation projects in Egypt, India, Mexico, Russia, Turkmenistan, Algeria, Pakistan, China, Libya, Algeria and.the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.In April 2022, SLB finalized contracts to replace conventional purchased power with 100% renewable power for 138 sites in Texas. As part of this project, SLB secured 42.75MW of.wind power from the White Mesa Wind project located in Crockett County, Texas. This.reduced our year-on-year Scope 2 facility emissions by approximately 16%. This contract also protects SLB from energy shortages, which.can result in extreme power price spikes.Following are some examples of how we are reducing our.GHG emissions.Behavior Change and Energy Efficiency In France we signed the EcoWatt charter for responsible energy consumption. As a result, we have committed to reducing our consumption by 10%. We are also lowering the temperatures of our sites to 19 degC during the winter months and converting our real estate to geoenergy with the SLB Celsius Energy solution. With our own Celsius Energy solution, one of our technology centers reduced energy consumption by 16% by implementing a focused effort on monitoring consumption on a monthly.basis.In 2022, SLB locations in France and Italy partnered 
with third-party specialists for a pilot study of a new energy management system that includes the installation of IoT smart meters that allow live monitoring of energy consumption and trends. This pilot project looks at the behavior of the buildings, using a power consumption profile considering historical consumption, HVAC, humidity sensors and feedback loops and integrating external data such as weather and direct sunlight. This enables the facilities to track their energy consumption and identify potential reduction opportunities by eliminating energy waste. In 2022, we initiated a number of three-year energy saving projects with a third party to assess current operating conditions, and signed contracts for 14 sites located in.the UK, Canada, and the US. Based on promising first.quarter 2023 results from five sites in the UK we have expanded the project scope and are engaging in feasibility studies for a number of sites in Bahrain, Italy, Malaysia and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. In 2022, we introduced a timer to reduce the idling time of our fleet. As a result, we have seen a 50% reduction in idling in our Alaska operations, equating to a reduction of approximately 58 metric tons of CO2e. We also insulated our East Camp facility to improve energy efficiency, leading to a reduction of over 100 metric tons of CO2e per.year. Renewable Energy Switching Our purchased renewable energy volume increased in.2022 by 40% as compared to 2021. Multiple facilities have converted to renewable energy sources, reducing our CO2e emissions by 14,500 metric tons per year. This includes facilities across the US, Brazil, India, and Europe.In Europe, we now have over 60 facilities shifting to renewables for electricity, supporting our reduction in Scope 2 emissions. This has saved approximately 4,500 tons of CO2e annually, In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, at our Middle East Center for Reliability and Efficiency, we installed nearly 1,500 photovoltaic solar panels with an annual output of 260 MWh per year. This eliminates 600 metric tons of CO2e annually and covers the entire electricity consumption of the facility administration building while enabling savings of USD 55,000 in annual electricity bills.In Pakistan, we installed a solar system at our base in Islamabad. The system is saving the equivalent of over 215 metric tons of CO2e per year and providing power back to the national grid. In two of our facilities in China, we applied all three behavioral, efficiency, and energy switching initiatives. We installed LED lights and road lamps at our main facilities saving the equivalent of 104 metric tons of CO2e. Installation of solar panels at our Linggan facility has resulted in annual electricity savings of 121,000 Kwh, equivalent to 80 metric tons of CO2e. At our new Chengdu base, we are installing the Celsius Energy geoenergy solution to provide heating and cooling. When.the base opens, this will reduce our air conditioning electricity consumption by 35% and eliminate 205 metric tons of CO2e per year. We also switched 18 commuting vehicles to hybrid or purely electric resulting in a reduction of 130 metric tons of CO2e.Scope 3While we initiated long-term upstream and downstream actions in 2022 across our value chain to reduce our Scope 3 emissions, our overall Scope 3 emissions increased in two main areas due to significant business.growth.Upstream Scope 3 increased mainly in purchased goods and services to support increased activity. In 2022, 19% of our Scope 3 emissions came from purchased goods and services. We engaged 1,240 suppliers through our CDP Supply Chain program with 72% disclosure rate, an improvement as compared to 2021. We also incorporated a decarbonization challenge in our Supplier Innovation program for suppliers to share ideas and best practices around low-carbon products, and circular solutions to decarbonize supply chain including logistics. More details can be found in the Responsible Supply Chain section of this report.Downstream Scope 3 increased in use of sold products, specifically artificial lift pumping systems accounting for the emissions from the electricity consumed over their expected life span. In 2022, we focused on reducing the emissions of our products and services through technology innovation. We conducted decarbonization workshops with experts from our Divisions. Through collaboration we developed detailed strategy and action plans for our higher emitting technologies. Beyond our own Scope 3 emissions, we’re focused on technology solutions to decarbonize our customers’ operations.Technology and Innovation For the past century, SLB has continuously raised the benchmark for innovation, proven by our long-standing and continued track record of solutions, industry firsts, and new industry standards. We have the ability to rapidly deploy complex technology at scale globally from our more than 70 technology centers. From invention to application, our technologies rapidly enable safer, more efficient, and more sustainable operations for our customers, helping them decarbonize while also helping SLB toward our net zero commitment.In 2022, we embedded sustainability deeper into our new product development process, and today during the development of new technologies, we consider eight key sustainability requirements. The requirements are verified at each stage of development and validated by a.lifecycle assessment (LCA) for Scope 3 emissions intense products. Our internal screening LCA methodology is leveraged by our technology and product marketing teams for comparative analysis and enables us to estimate the 
GHG emission potential of each new product, establish 
a benchmark, and amend if necessary. We have also developed a number of models specifically to describe workflows in upstream and midstream operations, enabling our teams to assess many products quickly to identify areas of focus and opportunities 
for improvement. For more than 340 new products proposed for 
development in 2023, we evaluated and ranked the emissions impact and the customer avoided emission potential from the full deployment of the products to the.market. Today more than 50% of the SLB research budget 
for our UK and US research centers in 2023 is dedicated to CCUS, New Energy, and oil and gas decarbonization research. Upskilling and engagement of the technology organization is key to supporting our decarbonization efforts. In 2022, we created dedicated technology sustainability champions in our core services Divisions. We also facilitated a technology innovation challenge, inspiring more than 260 ideas from over 3,000 contributors. The top 30 proposals are now being considered for capital allocation.2022 has been a year of focusing on our emission reduction performance.Our Roadmap to Net Zero continuedTOTAL GHG EMISSIONS1IN MILLION METRIC TONS C025046.74036.632.129.2We continue to review our roadmap to net zeroLearn more here.02021202020192022Scope 3Scope 1 & 21 	We use the principles and guidance established in The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) to calculate our annual CO2e emissions in SLB. As part of the process, we apply emission factors and Global Warming Potential (GWP) factors to energy consumption data to derive CO2 e values. The GWP factors are taken from the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5 – 20 year and 100 year).GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY METRIC TONS OF CO2e 
PER THOUSAND DOLLARS OF REVENUE2019 2020 2021 2022 Scope 1 and 2 0.070 0.083 0.076 0.064 Scope 3 1.348 1.277 1.194 1.241 Total (Scope 1, 2 and 3) 1.419 1.360 1.270 1.304 Our Roadmap to Net Zero continued40% Increase in volume of our purchased renewable energy by 40%Our Roadmap to Net Zero continuedOur Technology StrengthsTechnical excellence 
and integrity Digital leadershipIndustry-leading 
research and developmentDecarbonizing 	Customer OperationsSLB has a critical role to play in the energy transition, meeting the world’s energy needs with an increasing proportion of low-carbon energy sources, carriers, 
and storage technologies. Along with our work to decarbonize the activities of our existing customers, decarbonization technology is also 
a leading area that is taking SLB beyond oil and gas. 
We are now seeing customers in adjacent industries, such.as steel and cement processing, who need a way 
to abate or reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. Oil and gas operations’ Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are estimated to contribute almost 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions, or just over 5 Gt per year. With hydrocarbons forecast to play a critical role during the energy transition, oil and gas is a key sector to decarbonize. Based on our Scope 3 inclusive inventory, and global technology and operational footprints, 
we are well positioned to address this challenge and have an increasing range of footprint reduction offerings aligned to it.Transition Technologies™ PortfolioWhat potential is there to access the energy 
we depend on now in a better, cleaner way? SLB is committed to quantifiably reducing the environmental impact of operations in the oil and gas industry, without compromising performance. Our Transition Technologies portfolio comprises technologies and services across SLB that enable our customers to quantifiably improve sustainability and avoid emissions in their operations, while simultaneously driving our traditional values 
of performance, reliability, and quality. The portfolio not only addresses our customers’ Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, but additionally focuses on their Scope 3 emissions related to purchased goods and services. Transition TechnologiesA portfolio of technologies across SLB that quantifiably enables our customers to meaningfully reduce the footprint of oil and gas operations, by reducing GHG emissions, reducing water use and reducing waste, together with five other quantifiable attributes that drive sustainability and support the UN SDGs.SLB End-to-End Emissions Solutions™ (SEES)A range of consultative, technical, and digital solutions specifically focused on methane and routine flaring emissions, built on three pillars – plan, measure, act.As the bedrock of the energy transition, oil and gas remains an important part of our energy mix today. That’s why we need innovative solutions to drive performance and decarbonize oil and gas operations. Drilling Emissions ManagementA consultative offering that aims at minimizing emissions during the well construction process, through planning, monitoring, and innovation. Decarbonizing Customer Operations continuedThe Transition Technologies address 
five key themes across the oil and gas value chainWe launched several new Transition Technologies in 2022 to support the decarbonization of oil and gas operations. 30%Our Transition Technologies portfolio revenue grew more than 30% year on year, and we project it will cross the USD 1 billion revenue mark in 2023. Address methane 
emissions Reduce or 
eliminate flaringMinimize well construction CO2 footprintFull field development solutionsElectrification 
of infrastructureIN FOCUSSLB Launches Digital Sustainability PlatformIn 2022, SLB announced plans to collaborate and develop a digital platform that will provide sustainability solutions for hard-to-abate industrial sectors. The proposed platform will enable companies in industries such as oil and gas, chemicals, utilities, cement and steel to collect, measure, report and verify their emissions, while also evaluating different decarbonization pathways. Customers will be able to measure and report baselines, targets, emissions, offsets and credits, which will help them manage their carbon footprints more effectively by increasing the availability and visibility of relevant data in a transparent and flexible solution.Winner of 2022 SEAL Business Sustainability Award, which honors leadership, innovation and commitment to sustainable business practicesDecarbonizing Customer Operations continuedAddress Methane EmissionsMethane and routine flaring within oil and gas operations contribute to over 2.5 Gt CO2e in greenhouse gas emissions per year. An ever-evolving portfolio of solutions across the industry means that more and more of these sources of emissions can be eliminated by products and solutions available today, and at a net economic benefit to the operator. Eliminating methane and flare emissions represents a compelling opportunity for the oil and gas industry to reduce its impact.Launched in March 2022, SLB End-to-End Emissions Solutions (SEES) comprises a comprehensive, robust and flexible approach aimed at helping customers reduce greenhouse gas emissions that result from vented or fugitive methane and routine flaring. As energy companies seek to operate in a more sustainable manner, they will need to report and reduce their methane emissions and flaring activity more reliably. In addition, robust data and a digital foundation enables customers to have a single secure and reliable place for integrating multi-source emissions data with advice, plans, and insights. Supporting SEES are specific Transition Technologies that can help eliminate vented or leaking methane. Our.Vx.Spectra surface multiphase flowmeter achieves accurate flow measurements and can replace a conventional separator for individual well production metering. Compared to a separator, using Vx Spectra eliminates multiple sources of vented and fugitive methane emissions. On a typical setup, pressurized well gas is used for powering various pneumatic circuits due to the cost and logistical implications of using compressors. The use of separators also results in many connections between components, any of which have the potential to become a source of leaking (fugitive) methane rich gas. Depending on the type of separator replaced, the annual emissions savings enabled by Vx Spectra™ can equate to between 50 and 500 metric tons of CO2e per separator replaced per year. In the Eagle Ford in continental US, using Vx Spectra multiphase flowmeters helped our customer Ensign reduce methane emissions by 75%.To help address fugitive methane, we have the broadest portfolio of API and ISO certified low emissions valves in.the industry.Eliminate or Reduce FlaringIn 2021, gas flaring alone was responsible for 270 mega.tons of CO2e emissions globally, according to the.International Energy Agency (IEA). Our Transition Technologies portfolio includes products and services that are aimed at eliminating or reducing the impact of non-routine flaring from well testing, well cleanup, and production boosting operations. Solutions within SEES address routine flaring elimination or reduction.Eliminating non-routine flaring is increasingly feasible and represents one of the biggest impacts we are having today in reducing GHG emissions in oil and gas.operations. In Kazakhstan, we have been using our zero flaring well testing and cleanup package to avoid emissions by eliminating the need to flare hydrocarbons during well cleanup operations. For Karachaganak Petroleum Operating, this service avoided 1.3 million metric tons of.CO2e emissions over the past four years, compared to.conventional production boosting techniques.Our Ora™ platform’s deep transient testing capability can replace drill stem test (DST) operations in many cases. Along with reducing the overall time and footprint compared to a DST, Ora deep transient testing eliminates the need for flaring, resulting in an emissions reduction of.up to 96% compared to a DST operation with flaring.In the short term, as we continue to work towards eliminating flaring from operations, improving flare efficiency is key. To.optimize flare efficiency, we are working to implement light detection and ranging flare measurements to understand the exact CO2 and.methane outputs from the flare and adjust burn settings to maximize combustion.efficiency.Minimize Well Construction CO2 FootprintThere are several significant sources of emissions that relate to the well construction process – including the rig generators, transportation of materials to and from the rig, and processing of waste, in addition to the embodied carbon that is emitted during the manufacture of items that are used to construct the well – such as drilling fluids, cement and steel tubulars. We have a range of Transition Technologies that can help reduce well construction CO2 footprint across these various sources. Embodied carbon related to well construction fluids is reflected in our customers’ Scope 3 emissions for purchased goods and services. In a typical Middle Eastern land well, we estimate the embodied carbon represents 40% of the total well construction-related emissions. Helping customers reduce embodied carbon is a key area where we can add value.Using high-performance water-based mud systems reduces the embodied carbon related to drilling fluid that is lost to the formation on every well. Our aqueous HydraGlide™ system, when compared to a typical oil.based mud with similar performance, offers on average a.50% reduction in embodied carbon of 27.metric tons of CO2e per job.Our CemFIT Heal™ cementing solution contains a reduced proportion of Portland cement compared to standard oil and gas slurries. The reduction in concentration of Portland cement, and its replacement with less carbon intensive material, enables a reduction in embodied carbon of 61% compared to traditional mixes at equivalent densities. The total savings varies per well, but for a typical total depth section the use of CemFIT Heal can reduce embodied carbon by 34 metric tons compared to Portland-based cements. Building on this knowledge and capability, SLB sees further possibilities for even greater savings related to embodied carbon in cementing solutions, and this is a key.focus for our engineering teams.Best-in-class efficiency enablers consistently drive down emissions and rig time. The TruLink™ system, which eliminates the need for stationary directional surveys during the drilling process, can avoid 31 metric tons of CO2e of rig generator emissions on an average job. Using our intelligent power management system, our.introduction of software to proactively manage rig generators together with battery storage reduces rig.emissions by 25%.Offshore waste treatment solutions such as the ENVIROUNIT™ system reduces the requirement to transport waste for disposal, driving down transportation-related emissions by approximately 500 metric tons of CO2e per year for a single unit installed on a deepwater rig.Our end-to-end Drilling Emissions Management service can help integrate the right Transition Technologies to maximize decarbonization impact in well construction.31 T CO2eTrulink, which eliminates the need for stationary directional surveys during the drilling process, avoids on average 31 metric tons of CO2e 
of rig generator emissions per job.  Supporting the 
SEES business, SLB joined, contributed to 
or authored:.Methane Guiding Principles
Find out more here..The OGCI’s Aiming for Zero 
Methane Emissions Initiative 
Find out more here..As part of the Society of Petroleum Engineers program of Distinguished Lecturers, the presentation “Methane Emissions: Our Obligation and Our Opportunity” which will be presented to over 30 SPE chapters in 2022-23. .The road map and policies required to reduce methane and flare activities from the oil and gas industry at COP27.VX Spectra in production, Singapore
Surface multiphase flowmeter providing real-time continuous measurements enables on-the-spot, rapid decision making to optimize production75% in the Eagle Ford in the US, using.Vx Spectra multiphase flowmeters helped our customer Ensign reduce methane emissions by 75%.Learn more here.Learn more here.Learn more here.Decarbonizing Customer Operations continued25% reduction in rig emissionsusing our intelligent power management system, introduction of software to proactively manage rig generators together with battery storage reduces rig emissions by 25%.Learn more here.Decarbonizing Customer Operations continuedFull Field Development SolutionsTransition Technologies also enable emissions savings in production operations from bespoke or integrated solutions, where the savings can last for the entire producing life of the asset. Solutions can range from subsea production boosting technologies to low-energy systems within midstream operations for fluid processing. For subsea wells where powered production is required, subsea boosting and compression systems can substantially reduce energy consumption and emissions. Offshore Norway, for Shell, in the Ormen Lange Field, subsea multiphase compression is estimated to boost average natural gas production by up to 30% while reducing energy consumption by 50%. By moving the compression point closer to the reservoir for subsea wells, subsea gas compression significantly reduces the energy required for production compared to the more traditional approach of topside compression. The.reduction in energy consumption offers a path to.lower emissions. Learn MoreOur solutions also address customer Scope 3 emissions related to purchased goods and services, or embodied carbon. Reducing the size of steel-intensive offshore infrastructure represents a considerable opportunity to reduce emissions in the manufacturing process of the infrastructure itself, because less steel is required. Aligned to this challenge, Rapid™ multilateral systems can enable improved reservoir access while minimizing the need for topside infrastructure. Offshore Norway, this system enabled Var Energi to save millions with the industry’s first subsea retrofit multilateral wells and avoid 5,000 to 10,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions, by avoiding having to construct two new subsea wells and procuring and installing the associated infrastructure. Learn MoreTo ensure our decarbonization-focused technologies are incorporated early into the planning process, we.are.building emissions calculations capabilities into our software solutions that help with scenario planning, such.as field development planning.In our Core, our Production Systems Division has technologies that enable our customers to balance emissions produced through storage and sequestration.methodologies. We have leading technology in gas treatment to capture carbon for storage and sequestration. As an example, Cynara™ membranes are used for bulk removal of CO2 from natural gas. Cynara allows for better selectivity, leading to a smaller overall system footprint and lowering the quantity of hydrocarbons in the permeate stream. Replacing or reducing amine solvent use for acid gas removal eliminates or decreases GHG emissions associated with pumping and heating solvents. Moreover, Cynara systems require no external energy or chemical storage and disposal facilities. When combining membranes for bulk removal of acid gas with solvents for the final stage, a 30 to 50% reduction in emissions can be achieved. Capturing and reinjecting the acid gas into the subsurface leads to a 100% emissions reduction. SLB has progressed this past year in replacing non-SLB membranes with Cynara membranes. Electrification of InfrastructureElectrification helps access renewable energy, offers efficiency improvements compared to traditional electrohydraulic systems, enables more production with less infrastructure and enhances precision in the control of production operations. Although fully electric components offer advantages compared to electrohydraulic systems at a component level, there is a larger benefit when these components are combined within integrated systems. This is especially the case in the offshore environment. While the first fully integrated electric offshore production systems, inclusive of wells, subsea and topside, are still approximately two to three years away, we are already seeing the sustainability benefits of.electrification.now, both in terms of embodied carbon reduction and maximizing the production from each well.For offshore subsea production, SLB has developed all-electric subsea actuators in a four-well subsea production system can eliminate over 1,000 metric tons of CO2e in embodied carbon compared to using electro.hydraulic actuators.For offshore production with dry production trees, surface electric actuators can help enable a significant reduction in embodied carbon by enabling smaller platform infrastructure compared to surface hydraulic actuators. This is achieved through eliminating the need for an electrohydraulic control unit and reducing or eliminating the need for crew accommodation on the platform.Furthermore, electric well completions maximize the performance from each well, helping operators meet production targets with fewer wells and fewer emissions, especially in the deepwater environment where a single well can easily results in more than 5,000 metric tons of CO2e GHG emissions. SLB’s Manara™ production and reservoir management system enables control of more than six reservoir zones per well, theoretically enabling the same production as two or three wells that are built with a more traditional hydraulic systems. The Manara production and reservoir management system, has been deployed on 13 wells with a total of 57 stations. Learn.MoreDrilling Emissions ManagementDrilling Emissions Management is an end-to-end service which aims to help our customers and the wider industry significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions during well construction activities. Leveraging our footprint, domain expertise and innovative technology solutions, this end-to-end integrated service enables E&P operators to forecast, measure and implement downhole and surface solutions both in the planning phase and during operations to reduce emissions in well construction. We are already using the Drilling Emissions Management service on integrated well construction projects with fantastic results. During a pilot project in the Middle East, we reduced total.emissions by nearly 1,700 metric tons of.CO2e over 20 wells.Our strategy is to leverage technology and our global deployment platform to help a range of industries—from those with highly energy-intensive operations and hard-to-abate emissions to those related to clean energy generation and usage efficiency. Industrial sectors such as steel, cement, petrochemicals, mining, and power are looking for innovative, high-impact, and scalable solutions to accelerate their journey to a low-carbon future. Our focus is consistent with their ambitions for decarbonization and clean energy solutions at.scale. Our portfolio of New Energy solutions represents a balanced approach to industry decarbonization and clean energy scalability. Geoenergy for Heating and CoolingOur extensive subsurface expertise provides a significant advantage in harnessing geoenergy—a.low-carbon solution to generate building thermal comfort. Leveraging Celsius Energy, our innovative technology design and deployment enables large facilities to reduce their carbon footprint by switching from traditional methods of heating and cooling to a geoenergy solution. Results from diverse installations in France show up to 75% reduction of energy consumption and up to 85% reduction in CO2e emissions. Geothermal PowerGeothermal power uses the heat of the Earth to generate electricity by tapping hot water and steam zones that are continuously recharged naturally. With decades of experience, we are supporting many countries to accelerate their energy transition by utilizing geothermal energy. For example, in Oman we’ve evaluated data provided by Oman’s national oil and gas data repository from more than 7,000 oil, gas, and water wells to map sweet spots for geothermal prospects. The next phase of.the project will assess the economic feasibility of.developing potential geothermal resources. IN FOCUSTaiwan In Taiwan, SLB and CPC Corporation, Taiwan have signed a global strategic cooperation framework agreement that aims to achieve a goal of net zero emissions by 2050. With this agreement, the two companies will jointly carry out the planning and deployment of projects in geothermal energy, carbon neutrality, and digital transformation. The signing ceremony took place during the SLB 2022 Digital Integration Forum held in Lucerne, Switzerland. New Energy and 
	Transition Opportunities Clamart, France
Leveraging Celsius Energy, SLB can use the temperature below the surface to regulate the climate of your buildings using geoenergy. Creating and scaling a diversified portfolio of businesses focused on decarbonization and clean energy technology is key to SLB’s future. Learn more here.SLB’s New Energy Technology Impact HighlightsCelsius Energy, a venture of SLB’s New Energy business focused on heating and cooling solutions for buildings, was awarded a contract for one of the ten largest geoenergy projects in Europe, where demand for low-carbon and locally sourced energy is rising. This project, based in the eastern region of France, will provide heating and cooling to dozens of buildings by combining geoenergy and waste heat from the world’s largest particle accelerator. Celsius Energy’s proprietary technology will enable the project to be completed with a limited drilling footprint of 174 bores and will leverage patented digital modeling and control capability for smart grid performance optimization. REDA Thermal™ power-efficient geothermal electric submersible pump reliably lifts fluids in high-enthalpy geothermal wells, delivering high flow rates with maximum electrical efficiency, minimal maintenance, and long run life. Our REDA Thermal ESP has earned the Efficient Solution label from the Solar Impulse Foundation after a rigorous evaluation process. This label validates the economic profitability of products and processes that protect the environment and helps decision-makers find efficient solutions to meet their environmental commitments..The combination of reliability and efficiency enables profitable production from geothermal wells that were previously uneconomical to produce—with minimal parasitic power load. In Turkey, Zorlu Enerji deployed a combination of the REDA Thermal ESP and the high-horsepower permanent magnet motor for geothermal power production from high-enthalpy wells, with temperatures as high as 213 degC. This resulted in a net increase of 1.7 MW in the geothermal power supplied to the electricity grid, with decreased power consumption of 0.4 MW. SLB joined a consortium led by the Net Zero Technology Center with the aim to develop an offshore energy hub project in Aberdeen. We are investing our digital and domain expertise to model the future energy system to help identify areas of inefficiency to create future research opportunities at SLB.Carbon Capture, Utilization, 
and.Sequestration (CCUS)The CCUS industry represents a fundamental solution for decarbonization and is growing steadily, but in 2022 its CO2 capture capacity was just 42 million metric tons per year according to the IEA. The IEA estimates that CCUS must remove more than 6 Gt of CO2 per year to reach net zero by 2050, so there is a long way to go. We have been partnering with inventive and forward-thinking companies to meet this challenge by accelerating the industrialization and scale-up of innovative technologies, such as nonaqueous solvent (NAS) technology, which captures CO2 from a broad range of industrial emissions. At the same time, we are expanding our global CCUS footprint across multiple sectors and industries via collaborations such as the SLB and Linde collaboration.CCUS is seen as one of the critical technologies to enable the world to achieve net zero. To deliver low-cost, scalable CCUS projects, end-to-end digital solutions are required. Microsoft and SLB are collaborating to harness their combined digital and industrial expertise, in order to provide our customers with highly scalable, cloud-enabled CCUS solutions. By combining Microsoft and SLB technologies, we are delivering next-generation insights and visualization through advanced analytics, augmented reality, and immersive collaboration. These solutions will enable confident business decisions and ultimately lead to a more sustainable world.New Energy and Transition Opportunities continued“	CCUS is vital in creating the decarbonized energy systems our planet needs to balance energy demand with climate objectives.”	Olivier Le Peuch	Chief Executive OfficerClamart, France
Our state-of-the-art treatment 
systems processing carbonIN FOCUSSLB Delfi™ 
Digital PlatformIn Norway, the Delfi™ digital platform was selected by Northern Lights JV for.the first cross-border, open-source CO2 transport and storage infrastructure network. CO2 will be shipped to an onshore receiving terminal on the Norwegian west coast before being transported by pipeline for permanent storage 2,600 meters under the seabed. Northern Lights will use the Delfi cognitive E&P platform to collaborate on innovative digital solutions across the CCS value chain and optimize the CO2 storage capacity evaluation process.