TAKING CLIMATE ACTION Our first sustainability focus is “Taking Climate Action.” Energy transition and climate change are two enterprise-level risks, addressed as part  of the “Next Horizons of Growth” theme of our corporate strategy  (2020 Annual Report, Form 10-K p. 6). The breadth and diversity of our global footprint, coupled with our passion for science and technology, position us to have a broad impact. Decarbonizing across the entire oil and gas value chain and investing outside of oil and gas both present opportunities for Schlumberger. Getting to Net Zero Getting to Net Zero by 2050 is a commitment we announced in June  2021 as an industry leader and a company that believes strongly in  the power of technology to create change. Science is deeply rooted in  our culture, and our science-based approach to climate change is an expression of our history and our ambition for the future, aligned with the Paris Agreement ambition of limiting global warming to 1.5 degC. Our 2050 target is supported by a comprehensive near-term road map with interim milestones in 2025 and 2030. We aim to offset the balance of emissions we produce in 2050 with carbon-negative actions. Along the journey to net zero, we will be transparent about our progress, consistent with our alignment with the TCFD and SASB frameworks. Our near- and long-term ambitions are grounded in climate science, and we continue to work with the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) for formal external validation of our 2030 target. Rather than just considering our Scope 1 and 2 footprint of 2 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent (CO2e), our targets encompass our total 2019 baseline greenhouse gas footprint of 54 million tonnes, and as such, our emissions reduction road map addresses the entire oil and gas value chain. Our detailed emissions footprint is on page 11. There are three key  components to achieving our net-zero ambition: reducing operational emissions, reducing customer emissions that occur while using our technology, and taking carbon-negative actions of sufficient scale to offset any residual operational and technology emissions we may have in 2050. Operational Emissions Operational emissions constitute 25% of our 2019 baseline greenhouse gas emissions footprint. We have already converted more than 20% of our facility emission footprint to renewable power and we have begun introducing hybrid vehicles into our fleet. In addition, digital adoption will play a role in reducing waste and consequently emissions. Examples of how we are reducing our operational emissions include the following: Scope 1 and 2 • A global idling reduction campaign in field operations in 2020 resulted in a fuel efficiency improvement (measured in miles per gallon) of  19% in North America and 11% in the rest of the world. • Our own Celsius Energy geoenergy installation at a manufacturing  facility in France resulted in a 90% reduction in CO2 emissions, 60% reduction in energy consumption, and 40% lower annual heating and cooling costs. 2019 Scope 1 & 2  Logistics  Purchased Goods & Services  Other  • Electric fleet • Renewable power • Supplier alignment • Digital (efficiency, automation) • We have installed solar panels in facilities in Egypt and India and, in June 2020, signed a Renewable Energy Certificate for Texas, effectively converting approximately 20% of our electricity-related emissions footprint to renewable energy. • In 2021, we executed an agreement with Schneider Electric to work with us to develop a multiyear global renewable electricity sourcing strategy and prioritized road map for implementation. Logistics • In April 2021, we implemented digital optimization for the sourcing  and distribution network of chemicals in one of our divisions. In the first three months since implementation, we reduced both cost and emissions by 2.9% and 4.0%, respectively. As a result, we are exploring how to scale our learnings from this project to a wider portion of our materials distribution. Supply Chain • In 2021, we engaged CDP Supply Chain to work with 500 of our logistics and purchased good and services suppliers on emissions disclosure. These 500 suppliers represent approximately 3.4 million tonnes CO2e of our Scope 3 emissions. 2019 Technology Use Emissions Technology use emissions are 75% of our total CO2e footprint and  represent the largest category of our Scope 3 emissions. Technology use, or use-phase, emissions are either direct emissions related to the use of our technology in the field or emissions related to power consumption  by our technology during operations. In other words, these are Scope 1 and 2 emissions for our customers. Deploying technology to assist our  customers in their journey to achieve net zero is a tremendous  opportunity for Schlumberger and the industry. Looking at 15 of our  largest customers, less than half had emissions reduction targets as recently as three years ago. Today, all of them have some stated  ambition related to emissions reduction. TRANSITION TECHNOLOGIES PORTFOLIO As of August 2021 Address Fugitive & Vented Reduce or Eliminate Flaring Minimize Well Construction Full Field Development Electrification Methane Emissions CO2 Footprint Solutions • Cameron Low-Emission  • Ora* Deep Transient  • Neosteer*  Valves  Testing  • PowerDrive Orbit G2*  • Symmetry Platform  • EverGreen*  • EverCRETE*  • Zero Flaring Well Test and Cleanup  • CemFIT Heal*  • Flaring Emissions Prediction  • Intelligent Power Management  • Symmetry Platform  • Ora* Fluid Sampling  Scanning  • Optiq Seismic*  • Performance Live*  • ENVIROUNIT*  • ATC*  • TruLink*  Coinciding with our net-zero announcement, we launched our  Transition Technologies portfolio, which will be a key enabler to our  customer decarbonization efforts. The portfolio addresses a range of  sustainability attributes that support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals where our technologies can have an impact, with a strong focus on emissions reduction. The technologies within this portfolio address a range of emissions sources within our customers’ operations and are categorized as shown above. Broadly speaking, they are aimed at fugitive or vented methane, flaring, and emissions related to a reduction in power consumption. • Rapid* Multilateral • All-Electric Surface Systems Actuator • Subsea Boosting Systems • Subsea Multiphase Compression System • HiWAY* • CYNARA* • REDA* Maximus Eon* “Coinciding with our net-zero announcement, we launched our Transition Technologies portfolio, which will be a key enabler to our customer decarbonization efforts." The Ora platform has already helped customers avoid more than 75,000 tonnes of CO2e compared with industry standard methods. Some of the ways we are working to reduce our technology use emissions and our customers’ operational emissions are included below. Methane • We recently launched an Emissions Management business line. • We have invested in GHGSat and SeekOps for methane monitoring  by satellite and drone, respectively. • We are developing multisensor measurement solutions to accurately detect and quantify methane emissions. • We are involved in Project Astra, a first-of-its-kind sensor network that will use advances in methane monitoring technologies and digital capabilities to monitor methane emissions in the Permian Basin and potentially drive large-scale reductions. • We offer the largest portfolio of low-emission qualified valves to help address fugitive methane emissions. • We serve as advisors on a broad study of numerous mobile methane detectors led by Stanford University. For BP in Oman, 80,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions were avoided during cleanup operations on 10 wells by implementing a fit-for.basin solution. • Through a combination of technologies and domain expertise, zero flaring solutions can remove the need for flaring during cleanup or  well testing operations. Power Consumption • We deployed an automated electrical submersible pump (ESP) gas- handling system—including an AgoraGateway® ruggedized edge computing device, wireless sensors, and a solar-powered skid with  a flow computer and an automated choke valve to control the annular  gas flow rate—on 40 high gas/oil ratio wells to optimize the well  and ESP performance. The operator expects to gain approximately 400,000 bbl/yr (or 1,095 bbl/d more per well) and reduce 10,000 miles of driving by significantly reducing the need to send a field technician. The solar-powered AgoraGateway ruggedized edge computing solution collects, integrates, and transmits data from any field device, significantly reducing trips to the wellsite. The OneSubsea all-electric subsea system can reduce the energy intensity of production by 60% and avoid hundreds of thousands of tonnes of CO2e emissions during its lifetime. “Reducing emissions from technology is the first step in supporting our customers in decarbonization." • The OneSubsea® first all-electric subsea system recently passed  10 years of operation. OneSubsea electric actuators have now been in operation for more than 1 million hours with zero failure. The all-electric subsea installation delivers greater power consumption efficiency  over long distances, with a smaller carbon footprint, reduced risks  associated with traditional hydraulic installation, while increasing recovery and extending field life in gas developments. • We used Rapid multilateral systems in Norway to help Vår Energi  complete two existing wells as multilaterals. This avoided the  need to drill two new wells and an associated 5,000–10,000 tonnes  of CO2e emissions. Quantifying Impact Quantification of the CO2e footprint and reductions has been a  challenge for operators and technology providers. To help resolve this,  we developed a quantification framework to standardize calculations  and enable benchmarking through net-footprint comparisons. We  extended this exercise to screen ongoing research projects and  incorporated it into our new product development process for all  new technology developments. Reducing emissions from technology is the first step in supporting our customers in decarbonization. As more customers adopt emissions  reduction targets that include their entire Scope 3 footprint, our actions related to reducing operational emissions around logistics and supply chain will support their Scope 3 reduction efforts, as will our efforts  to move past simply quantifying emissions from technology use to  examining life cycle emissions down the road. Carbon-Negative Actions The last component of achieving net zero will be ramping up carbon- negative actions of sufficient scale to offset any residual emissions we have in 2050. Our intent is to minimize reliance on traditional offsets and instead to look for technology-centric actions in which we can play a role. A current example is in the field of bioenergy carbon capture and  sequestration (BECCS). In March 2021 we announced plans to develop a BECCS project—working with Chevron Corporation, Microsoft, and Clean Energy Systems—designed to produce carbon negative power in Mendota, California. The BECCS plant will convert agricultural waste biomass, such as almond trees, into a renewable synthesis gas that will be mixed with oxygen in a combustor to generate electricity and, in the process, capture the CO2 by-product and sequestrate it in a local underground geologic formation. The plant, when completed, is expected to capture about 270,000 tonnes of CO2 annually. In 2020, we announced our Schlumberger New Energy portfolio to explore new businesses in low-carbon or carbon-neutral energy technologies. This portfolio complements our offering in oil and gas while leveraging our digital expertise. Schlumberger Core Portfolio Schlumberger New Energy Digital TAKING CLIMATE ACTION continued Investing in Energy Transition We recognize that our future will expand beyond oil and gas with energy transition and are positioning ourselves for significant long-term growth opportunities. In 2020, we announced our Schlumberger New Energy portfolio to explore new businesses in low-carbon or carbon-neutral energy technologies. Today, Schlumberger New Energy activities include ventures in the domains of lithium, hydrogen, carbon capture, geoenergy, and geothermal. While many of the investments are new businesses, we have historical experience in both carbon capture and geothermal. Schlumberger has participated in carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) projects since 1998, and GeothermEx, the geothermal consulting and services company we acquired in 2010, began operations in 1973. Schlumberger New Energy is taking a business venture approach that  will focus on low-carbon energy efficiency and storage as a priority  and is aimed at developing unique positions in adjacent markets and introducing breakthrough technologies in energy verticals beyond oil  and gas. Schlumberger will use its domain expertise in areas adjacent  to its existing activities where it can deliver at scale with its global  footprint and execution platform. Recent announcements from Schlumberger New Energy include  the following: • GeoFrame Energy joint venture with Thermal Energy Partners (TEP). This venture combines Schlumberger subsurface and drilling expertise with TEP’s experience in project development and risk mitigation to develop geothermal power projects. Read more here and here. • Partnership with LafargeHolcim. This technology-driven partnership will study the feasibility of capturing carbon from two LafargeHolcim cement plants, based in Europe and North America, using Schlumberger carbon sequestration technologies. This collaboration is a step toward developing a blueprint for large-scale deployment of CCS solutions in transformational sectors. Read more here. • Genvia clean hydrogen production technology venture. This venture will accelerate the development and the first industrial deployment of the CEA high-temperature reversible solid-oxide electrolyzer technology with the aim of delivering the most efficient and cost-effective  technology for producing clean hydrogen. Read more here and here. • NeoLith Energy lithium new venture. Following the launch of NeoLith Energy earlier this year, Schlumberger later announced a partnership with Panasonic, a leader in electric vehicle batteries. Together, Panasonic and Schlumberger New Energy aim to accelerate the development and implementation of an innovative lithium production process, with a commitment to economical, environmental and responsible extraction to empower the world’s transition to new energy sources. Schlumberger will bring subsurface and digital capabilities via its innovative direct lithium extraction process. Read more here and here. “Schlumberger will use its domain expertise in areas adjacent to its existing activities where it can deliver at scale with its global footprint and execution platform." “Schlumberger has taken a comprehensive assessment of emissions across all 3 Scopes, from their operations all the way through the value chain, to set science-aligned, absolute emission reduction targets based on the most robust available methodologies. These targets will drive strategy, demonstrating how Schlumberger takes responsibility for their own emissions while also influencing partners and enabling customers to decrease their own environmental impacts." William Theisen Head of Net Zero – Decarbonization Atos North America TAKING CLIMATE ACTION continued Managing Climate and Transition Risk Enterprise-level risks are generally similar across an industry, so it can be a competitive advantage for companies to understand and manage those risks across multiple time horizons. Therefore, effectively understanding how both climate change and energy transition will affect our business, and consequently managing those risks, makes us resilient and enables us to stay ahead of the competition. Given the high level of uncertainty and the extended time horizon, our approach to managing climate and transition risks is data-centric and scenario based. We also use both the TCFD and SASB disclosure frameworks as methodology guides. Strategy Resilience—Scenario Analysis Climate-related scenarios are an integral part of our scenarios-based portfolio strategy. We review different scenarios to evaluate our  business resilience and confirm our portfolio’s alignment with our energy transition ambitions related to those scenarios. For example, both 2DS and IEA NZE were useful in understanding the role that carbon capture and sequestration will play in the path to net zero. While we have been  in the carbon capture business for more than 15 years, the scenarios give us confidence that the potential addressable market in carbon capture warranted continued investment and the integration of this business into our Schlumberger New Energy portfolio. IHS and Rystad both had scenarios that informed our view of regional and local distribution of the energy  mix and therefore influenced our specific regional technology strategies. Last, reviewing scenarios with a 2040 time horizon against those with a 2050 time horizon helped inform our long-term portfolio mix decisions. We will continue to use scenarios to inform strategy and financial  planning that offer a range of time horizons, ambition with respect to transition, and varied perspectives to help us better understand the risks and opportunities that climate change and the energy transition present. We also will continue to review the accuracy of our scenario predictions in the aim of working from best available predictive information regarding the coming decades. To understand scenario sensitivity and materiality, since 2018,  Schlumberger has been working with a climate expert to complement our enterprise risk exercise with country-specific climate-impact assessments in alignment with TCFD recommendations. These assessments review both climate-related risks and opportunities and provide added granular climate data relevant to our operations by applying scenario-based  analyses in accordance with the Paris Agreement. Our operations  representing more than 50% of 2019 revenue either have completed  such assessments or are scheduled to complete them in 2021. Examples of impacts that we explored in these assessments include • carbon pricing including the pace and impact to both our customers  in the assessed country and Schlumberger • field equipment electrification • extreme weather cost impact on logistics, productivity, etc. • protected marine activity impact. CLIMATE SCENARIOS WE USE • RCP 2.6 /  8.5 • IEA B2DS / 2DS / NZE • IRENA • BNEF NEO • IHS GES to 2050 / LEP to 2050 • Rystad +Sigma / Mean / SDS 2019 EMISSION BASELINE INVENTORY 75%completion of planned work on country-level climate assessments Although there are some differences across geographies, there were a number of common findings across them. For example, unmitigated extreme weather can affect cost in the future. In one country, extreme weather impacts might involve excessive rain altering road travel whereas in another country they could involve excessive heat causing increased work stoppages and lower worker productivity. We have completed  75% of the work on our planned country-level climate assessments. As an example of how we apply learnings from these assessments, one country assessment indicated that 62% of our locations in that country could be exposed to coastal flooding due to sea-level rise by 2050.  To address this risk, a decision was made—supported by our Board  of Directors and company leadership—to perform a scenario-based assessment across the entirety of the company for all locations  potentially at risk of coastal flooding. This was completed in 2020  and mitigation plans were developed—for example, reviewing flood insurance and lease agreements for all locations identified as having  a potential future risk of coastal flooding, which constituted less than  1% of our global facility footprint. In 2021, we announced the addition of a Chief Strategy & Sustainability Officer (CSSO) on our executive leadership team. Our CSSO will provide biannual updates to the Board of Directors’ New Energy and Innovation Committee, which reviews our Schlumberger New Energy and Transition Technology investments. These governance improvements will position us to continue improving our management of risks related to climate change and the energy transition going forward. Additional information on how the Board of Directors oversees risk  management can be found in the 2021 Proxy Statement. (tonnes CO2e) Scope 1 Scope 2 Fuel 1.4 million Electricity 0.6 million Aligned with 1.5 degC scenario of the Paris Agreement Taking Climate Action Scorecard Metric 2020 2025 Target 2030 Target Scope 1 and 2 reduction vs. 2019 19%1 30% 50% Scope 3 reduction vs. 2019 27% not applicable 30% Note 1: 19% reflects 2020 absolute reduction. Estimated reduction adjusted for COVID-19 activity impacts was 5%. Scope 3 Purchased Investments Upstream Upstream End of Life Goods and 3.4 million Transportation Leased Treatment Services & Distribution Assets 0.6 million 6.3 million 1.8 million 1.1 million Business Employee Capital Energy OperationsTravel Commuting Goods Activities Waste 0.2 million 0.1 million 0.1 million 0.1 million 0.1 million Use of Downstream Products Leased Assets 38.4 million “One of our enterprise-level risks is increasing regionalization. With energy transition, that trend will likely continue. Our ability to deliver fit-for.basin solutions empowers us to be more competitive in that context while at the same time creating local economic growth and opportunity." CREATING OPPORTUNITY Our corporate purpose is to create amazing technology that unlocks  access to energy for the benefit of all. The idea of “Creating Opportunity” is embedded in that purpose. One of our enterprise-level risks is  increasing regionalization, both geopolitically and in energy markets. With the energy transition, that trend will undoubtedly continue. A highly decentralized, diverse, and empowered organization and a technology portfolio that enables regional technological and economic flexibility is how we plan to navigate this new industry landscape. Our ability to invest in, leverage, and partner with local expertise to deliver bespoke customer solutions will not only empower us to be more competitive in every  location, but it will also help to create jobs, promote local economic growth, and reduce inequalities. Like in the case of climate action, we seek to do this across multiple time horizons, creating opportunity today as well as in the future. We are working toward this by investing in • Regional technology strategies that facilitate regional energy  access with a high degree of local content • Continuing to broaden our diversity to further our competitive  advantage. 