Environment and Climate Our rich history of technological innovation uniquely positions us to address the energy transition and climate change and to help drive measurable, positive change across our industry. Through the continued application of risk-mitigation measures, continuous improvements in data collection, and innovative technology development and application, we are focused on achieving significant environmental progress across our customers’ environmental footprints as well as our own. Environment and Climate Schlumberger is committed to responsible environmental stewardship. We strive to meet international environmental standards and regulations, and to exceed customer expectations by managing risk, reducing pollution, reducing our waste and natural resource consumption, and lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to explore ways to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations and our customers’ operations. Our 2019 environmental performance in several priority areas is set out below. Managing Environmental Risk Schlumberger uses a flexible, risk-based approach to manage and mitigate the environmental aspects and impacts of our activities, products, and services. The diverse nature of these environmental aspects and impacts requires a flexible approach. Our commitment to environmental protection, as described in our HSE risk policy and our Code of Conduct, requires that a minimum standard of environmental performance is established at each of the Company’s facilities regardless of local regulatory requirements. Our environmental risk management program uses a combination of 14 fundamental controls that are implemented at Company locations in environmentally sensitive areas, and 12 risk-based controls that are implemented to manage the environmental aspects and impacts of a specific business activity. The requirements for risk-based controls are described in business-specific environmental risk assessments for each of our geographical regions and business segments. Each of our worksites uses this risk assessment to create a documented, site-specific environmental program that describes which controls are applicable to the site and how those controls are implemented. Implementation of the environmental management program is supported by the management systems and processes described in our corporate standards and several web-based IT systems designed to collect and manage environmental performance data, regulatory compliance documentation, and procedural documents. Our environmental management program includes several processes that provide assurance of internal conformance to our requirements and of external compliance to applicable regulatory requirements. These assurance processes are documented and subject to periodic internal review. The Schlumberger environmental risk management program has been developed to align with the requirements of our external stakeholders, including our customers and regulatory agencies in the countries where we operate. To support those stakeholders, we have developed our program to include the requirements of two recognized independent environmental management standards: The International Standards Organization ISO14001:2015 and the environmental components of the International Finance Corporation (World Bank Group) Environmental and Social Performance Standards. Furthermore, a third-party organization has completed a review of our program’s alignment to those two standards. The Schlumberger Environmental Management Standard includes the following risk-based controls applicable to our global operations: » Air emissions » Chemicals and materials management » Environmental competencies for key personnel » Environmental communications » Contractual environmental risk management » Ecosystems and biodiversity impacts and management » Environmental due diligence » Environmental impact assessment » Environmental risk identification and risk management » Environmental nuisance management » Resource management » Spill response and environmental emergency response » Waste management Environmental Reporting We are committed to complying with or exceeding existing reporting regulations in every country in which we work. Through our HSE function, we collect regional data on GHG emissions, water use, oil spills, and waste and compile metrics for global data. Our Global Stewardship function is responsible for the public reporting of our global performance metrics and for adding context to our annual performance. We continue to advance our data collection and risk analysis efforts to generate annual improvements in the measurement and management of our carbon footprint and to reduce our climate-related risk. Schlumberger facilities annually report to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Toxic Release Inventory in accordance with applicable regulations. Climate Change Our environmental objectives and programs align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of providing access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all (SDG #7), encouraging and developing ways to responsibly consume and produce resources (SDG #12), taking urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts (SDG #13), and protecting life under water and on land (SDG #14 and #15). We also support the efforts of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for advancing environmental and social performance. IPIECA helps the oil and gas industry be part of the climate change solution by providing members with guidance on greenhouse gas (GHG) reporting and information on best practices regarding energy efficiency and GHG management, and by convening expert workshops to explore key climate-related issues. In December 2019, we became the first company in upstream E&P services to commit to setting a science-based target to reduce our GHG emissions, as defined by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). SBTi is a collaboration between CDP, the United Nations Global Compact, World Resources Institute, and the World Wide Fund for Nature, and is one of the We Mean Business Coalition commitments. In line with SBTi’s stated criteria, we will define our GHG reduction target by 2021 and, following approval, we will have between 5 and 15 years to reach our set target. Our science-based target will align with the goals of the U.N. Paris Agreement and will be calculated using expertise from our extensive scientific community. The target will include emissions set by SBTi’s approved criteria and will be validated based on science and specific contribution to the climate challenge. We have set an initial target to reduce GHG emissions from our fuel and power consumption by 30% by 2025. We will revise this target accordingly once our science-based target has been defined and approved. A portion of the 2020 short-term cash incentive compensation opportunity for our CEO and other members of our senior management is based on achieving our annual internal emissions reduction objectives as part of this five-year goal. We are also examining opportunities to reduce our indirect GHG emissions from associated input and outputs of our operations. As described in the Governance and Ethics section of this report titled “Managing Corporate Risk”, we believe that our comprehensive risk assessment program is reasonably designed to identify and manage those enterprise-wide risks that have the potential to significantly affect our businesses over the short-, medium- and longer terms. In line with TCFD recommendations, our risk assessments cover exposures to both physical and transition climate-related risks and their respective financial impact. For example, we review acute physical risks associated with extreme weather in areas susceptible to severe weather, flooding, and increases or decreases in rain and snow. Those variances may impact our business by causing extreme changes in precipitation patterns that may result in flooding, changes in road or well-site conditions, or damage to facilities. This may result in increased operating costs or decreases in revenue through disruptions at our facilities, in our supply chain, or at well-sites; equipment damage and repair requirements; and increased insurance premiums. To manage these extreme weather risks, we work with a third-party loss prevention firm to conduct site visits, assess potential risks to our facilities, and propose mitigating actions. Additionally, Schlumberger has business continuity and crisis management processes in place to mitigate potential disruptions caused by extreme weather events, as discussed further in the section titled “Business Continuity, Emergency and Crisis Management.” Additionally, our insurance policies help mitigate the risk of loss of assets at our facilities. We also review: » chronic physical risks related to climate change, such as the potential impact of sea-level rise on our global footprint; and » climate-related transition risks, such as policy and legal risks, including the potential impact of a carbon tax on Schlumberger and our customers, and technology risks, such as equipment obsolescence driven by our customers’ increased focus on emissions reductions and the associated costs to develop new technologies with a reduced environmental impact. In 2018, we began working with a climate consulting firm to complement our initiatives for managing climate-related risks by applying scenario- based analyses in accordance with the U.N. Paris Agreement, using both RCP 2.6 and RCP 8.5 scenarios. We began with a comprehensive climate assessment for Norway—a country that is representative of our operational activities. Through country-specific climate-assessments, we are able to conduct a more in-depth analysis of both climate-related risks and opportunities for the assessed countries. In our Norway assessment, we reviewed climate-opportunities such as increasing resource efficiency by applying best practices to reduce power consumption through behavior change, implementing renewables like solar, and optimizing and upgrading our HVAC systems. We also identified climate-related opportunities through our impact-reducing portfolio of products and services, including our Schlumberger New Energy ventures as outlined in the section of this report titled “Technology Advantage.” Findings from our Norway assessment were communicated to Schlumberger management and our Board and are further shaping our internal climate strategy. For example, because of opportunities identified as part of this assessment, Schlumberger has since partnered with the LowEmission Research Centre, a consortium of industry participants in Norway with a common goal of achieving ambitious carbon emissions reductions at the country level. Additionally, after identifying some mid-term flooding risks in Norway, we launched a global sea-level rise assessment, which we expect to complete in 2020. We have expanded our climate assessment project and, as of September 2020, our operations in countries representing over 50% of our total 2019 revenue are participating in the program. Externally, our position as a global technology leader provides us an unparalleled ability to address climate change with technologies that help our customers increase their operational performance while reducing or avoiding emissions, lowering water usage, and improving chemistry applications. For additional information about our impact-reducing technologies, please see the section of this report titled “Technology Advantage.” Biodiversity To minimize, mitigate, and manage significant ecosystem and biodiversity impacts, Schlumberger has developed a risk-based procedure for the creation of ecosystem and biodiversity management plans, to be applied to sites where relevant. These plans are designed to protect sensitive wildlife areas, flora and fauna, ecosystems, and conservation areas. They also seek to prevent the introduction of invasive species, and they establish conditions to facilitate the rehabilitation or restoration of land areas impacted by Schlumberger operations and project activities. The plans detail any local regulations requiring reporting on ecosystem and biodiversity management activities, which are periodically reviewed to ensure applicability. Schlumberger designs and manages its operations to minimize the impact on ecosystems and biodiversity across the life cycle of each facility, activity, product or service. Appropriate risk control levels are applied when Schlumberger operates in environmentally sensitive areas, including areas that have the potential for significant wildlife loss or where operations could possibly introduce invasive species or could impact a large body of land or water. Furthermore, where applicable or appropriate, we aim to preserve the indigenous vegetation of the land when we build worksites and use native plants and species when rehabilitating worksites. Environmental impacts that require remedial or restorative work are reported, investigated and reviewed in our HSE reporting system. Our ecosystem and biodiversity risk management processes and our environmental spill and emergency response procedures are designed to provide assurance that all required remediation and restoration activities occur concurrently with our operations, both at Schlumberger facilities and at our customers’ worksites. As far as reasonably practical, Schlumberger uses existing infrastructure to avoid or reduce the need for land clearance for construction. Where practical, new Schlumberger infrastructure is not placed in environmen.tally sensitive areas. The Company strives to minimize environmental disturbance, restrict the movement of machinery and equipment during work activities, plan land restoration, and schedule activities that may cause disruption and disturbance to wildlife as appropriate to avoid sensitive periods of the year. Schlumberger’s Biodiversity Standard states that, unless impracticable, activities should be avoided in the following types of sensitive areas: » Conservation priority areas not currently under protection » Environmentally sensitive areas » Internationally recognized areas » Legally recognized areas » Sites located in, or adjacent to, protected areas of high biodiversity value » Areas with potentially significant biodiversity value which might be at risk of adverse impact Furthermore, before initiating any business activity, we develop a risk assessment and evaluate potential impacts of current and planned activities on biodiversity, in order to mitigate and monitor impacts throughout the contract lifecycle. In designing Schlumberger facilities and worksites, we also seek to minimize the physical footprint of our activities and operations to reduce potential environmental impacts, particularly in environmentally sensitive areas. Protecting Wildlife Measures are taken to avoid interactions with wildlife within close proximity to activities or operations that could cause health and safety incidents or operational disruptions. Activities are also to be located, designed and constructed to avoid disruption to wildlife movements or habitats. In locations where the risk of said impact cannot be eliminated, arrangements are made to accommodate movements in order to minimize potential harm. Invasive Species Measures are implemented to avoid the potential for introductions of invasive species, including the transportation of substrates (like soil or plant materials) that may harbor invasive species. If we find that we have caused invasive species to be introduced, measures are taken to eradicate such species from the natural habitats. Rehabilitation and Restoration of Land Planning is undertaken to rehabilitate and restore land associated with our assets and infrastructure to either (i) the original condition of the site prior to activities, or (ii) a condition suitable for the land’s next intended use. Prevention and Management of Land Contamination During due diligence processes, a risk-based assessment is undertaken on acquisition of or entry to an asset to understand potential past and current impacts to soil and water bodies, as well as any environmentally sensitive receptors. Minimum setback distances or restrictions are put in place for activity infrastructure in proximity to flood prone areas, watercourses and wetlands, and individual and public water supplies. Land contamination is avoided by using ground protection measures, such as secondary containment or impermeable layers during the disassembly of any surface facilities or equipment. Decommissioning and Abandonment Worksites that show visible signs of impact by hydrocarbon activities, or are known sites of previous spills and releases, have soil samples tested to show that the soil has been returned to ambient conditions with reports to the local regulatory authority, if applicable. All cuttings pits are closed per local regulations or in accordance with good international practices where regulations are not applicable. Measuring and Monitoring A measuring and monitoring plan is developed to include, among other things: » The number and types of grievances raised by external stakeholders in relation to the actual or perceived adverse impact to land and biodiversity. » Progress toward land restoration objectives. » Incidences of soil or ground contamination. » Evidence of positive contributions to conservation efforts, such as outreach programs, education, research, and proactive conservation actions. » Allocation and protection of land within the contract area that has been designated for biodiversity conservation and management. » Evidence for incorporation of adaptive management of impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. Evaluating Potential Impacts Through Digital Technology In 2012, we began developing a modeling software that facilitates the incorporation of sustainability aspects into our engineering and operational practices by calculating environmental metrics related to well stimulation, such as emissions, air quality, water use, noise, and chemical exposure. The modeling software was integral to developing environmentally focused technologies such as the BroadBand Sequence* fracturing service and StimCommander* automated stimulation delivery platform. After using the modeling software internally for five years, we recognized the evolving needs of our customers to engage a wide variety of stakeholders. Therefore, we began working closely with industry partners to evaluate the external release of the modeling software to enhance planning and communication across the industry, independent of whether Schlumberger is providing the services. In 2018, we introduced Site Preparation and Drilling modules, which model key upstream oil and gas activities to expand the coverage of the modeling software beyond well stimulation. In 2019, we built a Production module, which models the longest portion of a well’s life and other critical aspects of wellsite operations that drive key sustainability metrics. We have presented the modeling software globally to numerous customers interested in using the software for a variety of applications, from modelling the impacts of wellsite technologies to communicating with regulators and stakeholders. Internally, we continue to use the tool within our planning and marketing functions, helping to package the right fit of services, activities, and technologies that align with our customers’ sustainability objectives and targets. We continue to identify functionality and user experience improvements and work towards integration with other key Schlumberger applications in our digital portfolio. Managing Facilities The Schlumberger Global Facilities Management and Maintenance Standard defines our responsibilities associated with managing facility activities. Our goal is to minimize utility use and the impact of our activities on the environment. The standard is designed to assist employees in confirming that facility activities maintain compliance with Schlumberger policies and relevant local environmental legislation and directives. Waste generated by any facility task must be measured and disposed of in a responsible manner with a licensed waste broker, and materials (particularly chemicals) that reduce or control pollution must be handled and stored responsibly. The standard requires energy-saving products and practices to be used in all aspects of facilities management activities and that a record is kept of energy use. In addition, employees and contractors who carry out facility activities must receive appropriate training, particularly when their work may have an impact on the environment. In 2019, 739 Schlumberger sites and facilities worldwide were subject to environmental audit requirements due to the nature of the operations conducted at those sites, and 53 of these sites were certified to the ISO14001 standard. In addition, Schlumberger’s environmental management system has been independently reviewed against the requirements of ISO14001 and has been documented as meeting all of the requirements of the ISO standard. Therefore, at our sites where a third-party ISO14001 certificate is not applicable, our environmental management system nevertheless meets or exceeds the requirements of the ISO standard. In the United States, we have activities that are subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response (HAZWOPER) standards. Schlumberger has established and implemented compliance programs associated with the requirements of these regulations, and as of December 2019, more than 9,000 Schlumberger employees in the United States have received training associated with HAZWOPER programs and compliance. One significant way in which our facilities management processes support Schlumberger’s sustainability goals is through our efforts to reduce power consumption. We have set an initial target to reduce GHG emissions from our fuel and power consumption by 30% by 2025. Our facilities’ initiatives to reduce power consumption focus on educating our workforce on energy conservation best practices to promote behavior change, implementing renewable energy solutions at sites where feasible, updating HVAC systems and/or optimizing facility heating and cooling cycles, and strengthening our renewables strategy, targeting our facilities located on independent power grids. Below are several examples of our facilities initiatives in 2019: » We initiated a pilot program in North America for managing our utility consumption and spend. Through this program, which currently covers 40% of our North American facilities, we use an online platform to track our utility usage, identify outliers and opportunities, and maintain proper reporting of energy, water, waste, and emissions. » Since 2017, Schlumberger has worked with a local Norwegian energy consultant to reduce the power consumption of certain key facilities in Norway. This pilot program focused on facility heating and cooling optimization, as well as changing employee behavior. In 2019, we expanded this project to three additional Norway facilities and applied lessons learned from the pilot phase. As of September 2020, 22% of our Norway sites are covered by this project. The project has resulted in a significant reduction in average yearly power consumption at these sites, resulting in considerable cost savings in 2019. The rollout of this program to other Norway facilities is ongoing in 2020. » We installed solar panels on the roofs of several of our key Schlumberger facilities in India and Egypt. We worked with local utility companies on the hardware installations, resulting in minimal capital expenditures and a reduced rate for electricity. Across our newly solar-powered sites, we produced over 1.5 GWh of solar power, resulting in significant carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions reductions of more than 900 metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent and approximately USD $250,000 in aggregate annual savings. » We were able to significantly reduce annual carbon emissions at one of our large research centers in the United States by adjusting the air flow system to align the air changes with comparable labs in the nearby area. This reduction was equivalent to the estimated amount of carbon emissions produced by the personal cars of the entire staff working in that that center during 2019. » In Thailand, we optimized energy consumption at a Schlumberger site through a project sponsored by the local city council. As a result of this project, we reduced 20% of the facility’s carbon emissions, resulting in savings of 60 metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent. *Mark of Schlumberger Managing Chemicals Schlumberger places a strong emphasis on protecting human health and the environment, and maintaining operational safety. We have a chemical management process in place to manage the risks associated with chemicals used in Schlumberger activities, products, and services, and to protect Schlumberger employees, customers, contractors, suppliers, property, and the environment. Our chemical management process also serves to promote compliance with regulatory and contractual requirements and avoid significant business losses resulting from chemical-related incidents. In 2020, we formalized our existing chemical management process into a new global Chemical Standard, covering the lifecycle of a chemical from product development, sourcing, procurement, manufacturing, and sale, to use and safe handling, transportation and storage, to the end of the lifecycle at disposal. Schlumberger is committed to reducing risks associated with chemicals through the elimination and substitution of chemicals, waste minimization, and waste elimination programs. We apply a risk assessment process prior to introducing new chemicals and compounds to our operations. At the beginning of the lifecycle of a product, we evaluate its chemistry to identify appropriate methods of mitigating chemical-related risks. Our dedicated chemical regulatory team works in close coordination with our research and development team to identify and reduce HSE and regulatory risks early. Our product development and sustaining teams focus on identifying chemical-related opportunities, as well as developing and using more environmentally sustainable chemicals. We have long been committed to transparency in our chemical disclosure. We also require our suppliers to provide us with full disclosure regarding any chemicals that we purchase from them before we can include such chemicals in our portfolio. In 2010, we developed a system-level full disclosure process for hydraulic fracturing chemicals, which process was adopted several years later by FracFocus 3.0, a registry for public disclosure of fracturing chemistry in the U.S. and Canada. After nearly a decade and more than 25,000 disclosures by Schlumberger, our industry-leading rate of disclosure for chemical constituents continues to be nearly 100%. In 2019, Schlumberger used a total of 77,549,337 m3 of hydraulic fracturing fluid in its global operations. This figure includes water and chemical additives. We require that our products comply with applicable laws in the jurisdictions where they may be distributed. We also develop and implement compliance processes in accordance with applicable regulatory regimes, such as the European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals regulation (REACH). In the last decade, we developed a robust REACH compliance program, under which we timely registered all required substances in accordance with applicable regulations. Our REACH registrations help us maintain our access to the European market and demonstrate our commitment to compliance. Environmental Performance Data In 2019, our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and water use increased, and our electricity use decreased, as the industry continued to rebalance and international activity increased. We continue working to improve our internal processes for gathering and reporting GHG emissions, water consumption, electricity generation, waste, and loss of containment. Each year we increase the number of sources from which we track data. Third-Party Audit For 2019, we engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to audit our methodology for quantifying direct and indirect GHG emissions linked to our operations around the world. As a part of this process, PwC auditors reviewed our processes and procedures and verified selected environmental and health and safety data. Environmental data audited for 2019 includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, waste production, water consumption, spill, and energy consumption. Health and safety data audited for 2019 includes the number of fatalities, employee and contractor lost-time injuries and illnesses, and the associated work hours to determine frequencies and rates. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are, in all material respects, fairly presented and in accordance with Schlumberger procedural guidelines. Air Emissions Schlumberger wellsite activities increased in 2019, leading to a 14.1% increase in our overall Scope 1 emissions to 1.62 million tonnes, compared to 1.42 million tonnes in 2018. This increase was mainly due to the continued upturn in pressure pumping activities in North America. Our overall Scope 2 emissions decreased by 9.4% to 0.58 million tonnes in 2019, compared to 0.64 million tonnes in 2018, due to our initiatives to reduce power consumption across key facilities. Combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions increased by 7.3% to 2.218 million tonnes in 2019 from 2.065 million tonnes in 2018. Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data covers all Schlumberger business lines and all geographical locations where we operate; we continue to strengthen our reporting capabilities with the aim of reporting 100% of our emissions. Scope 3 emissions from key supplier categories increased 15% from 2018 to 2019 to 1.368 million tonnes. In line with SBTi’s criteria for setting a Scope 3 science-based emissions reduction goal, we are working on increased transparency around supplier emissions by re-qualifying and quantifying carbon intensive supplies. We are also developing a supply chain engagement plan to help our suppliers lower their GHG emissions. The Scope 1, 2 and 3 data included herein for 2019 is consistent with categories of emissions data disclosed in previous years. As part of our commitment to setting a science-based target on emissions reduction by 2021, we are undergoing a thorough review of all emissions data categories and reporting processes with the aim of increasing transparency and identifying key gaps in our current reporting. Through this review process, we have identified, and may continue to identify, particular gaps that will result in a restatement of certain 2019 data. One such gap is fuel purchased by customers for our operations. We anticipate providing a restatement addressing such gaps in connection with setting our science-based emissions target. Water Use Water use data includes water used for domestic purposes, equipment cooling, equipment washing, manufacturing, and testing. Our water data covers 100% of business operations at our facilities but does not include water used in the delivery of our services at the wellsite. Water used at the wellsite in processes such as drilling or pressure pumping are not included because this water is purchased, controlled, and accounted for by our customers. Our overall water use increased to 5.6 million cubic meters in 2019 from 4.9 million cubic meters in 2018. This water increase came primarily from our production management projects. In 2019, Schlumberger recycled 131,000 cubic meters of water. Loss of Containment We have procedures in place reasonably designed to minimize, respond to, and control the environmental impact of uncontained spills at Company worksites and at some third-party controlled worksites. Our data for industry-recognized number of incidents greater than one barrel and hydrocarbon bulk fluid spills covers 100% of our business operations. In 2019, our industry-recognized number of incidents decreased to 28 from 44 in 2018.Our volume of hydrocarbons bulk fluid spills increased slightly to 536 barrels in 2019 from 522 barrels in 2018. Our data for industry-recognized spills of hydrocarbon greater than 1 barrel over the past five years is shown in the table below: 2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  Number of Industry-Recognized Incidents  22  32  45  44  28  Volume (U.S. Barrels)  217  547  436  522  536  Waste Management Our waste data covers 100% of our business operations and includes waste from facilities, manufacturing, building, remodeling, and discarded sand from wellsite operations. We reuse materials when possible and continue to seek opportunities to reduce both our direct consumption of resources and the waste we generate. In 2019, we increased our waste by 27%, to 639,000 metric tonnes from 503,000 metric tonnes in 2018, and we recycled 185,000 metric tonnes of waste. Schlumberger is committed to managing and reducing waste materials and effluent discharges throughout our facilities, and we have set internal objectives and targets focused on effluent management. Most Schlumberger sites have internal waste minimization plans, and certain sites are required to submit waste minimization and pollution prevention progress reports. Our waste suppliers are contractually required to comply with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local levels. We periodically audit our approved waste suppliers and we hold at least one annual environmental business review with our top suppliers. We reserve the right to conduct both audits and business reviews when or as frequently as necessary. Since 2010, Schlumberger has completed nearly 400 projects as part of its “Lean and Green” program aimed at lowering resource consumption and reducing waste. Lean and Green initiatives have encouraged employees to reduce electricity usage, water usage, fuel and material consumption, and waste, as well as to share environmental technologies, best practices, and innovations for environmental improvement. In 2019, Lean and Green projects focused on waste reduction resulted in avoiding over 500,000 kg of waste by, among other things: removing single-use water bottles and cups; upgrading equipment to reduce hazardous waste; reusing packaging material and consolidating shipments; laundering and reusing personal protective equipment; increasing recycling of metals and sand; and moving paper documentation to online record storage in key Schlumberger locations. We continue to roll out these initiatives globally. From 2010 to 2019, Schlumberger Lean and Green projects resulted in aggregate net savings of more than USD $11.2 million. Raw Materials Our raw materials data include use of sand, proppants, brines, cement, barite, and bentonite. In 2019, our raw materials use increased to 11.3 million tonnes from 10.5 million tonnes in 2018, driven by hydraulic fracturing activity in North America. Raw material utilization usually follows changes in wellsite activity. Electricity Use Electricity use decreased slightly to 1,198,000 megawatt-hours in 2019 from 1,284,000 megawatt-hours in 2018. Our electricity use data covers 100% of our business operations. Site Activity As Schlumberger is an energy services company, the majority of our business consists of providing products and services on our customers’ sites—which are not in our operational control. For our lump sum turnkey projects where, on behalf of our customers, we manage the operations at rigs (including drilling, completions, cementing, fracturing, and decommissioning operations), in 2019 we drilled 223 wells (well sites) with an average of 32 drilling rigs. Across our global operations (including sites managed by our customers), Schlumberger drilled an average of 1.8 million meters per month in 2019. Key Environmental Issues Based on information obtained from our customers along with an internal review that assessed applicability, degree of impact, and risk, Schlumberger has identified three environmental issues that are material to our business (subject to the following paragraph). Our top material risk, unintended releases to the environment, includes both well integrity and container integrity. We also continue to monitor our water use and our GHG emissions and continue to assess new methods for water optimization and GHG reductions. Notwithstanding the use of the terms “material” and “materiality” in this report, Schlumberger believes that individual companies are best suited to determine what information is “material” under the long-standing U.S. Supreme Court definition of that term and whether to disclose this information in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission financial filings. Please refer to the “Disclaimer” on the inside back cover of this report for additional information. Unintended Releases to the Environment A properly constructed well creates barriers crucial to reducing the risk of uncontrolled release of formation fluids. Ensuring well integrity requires a thorough understanding of the short- and long-term conditions that the well might encounter, knowledge that enables optimization of the well design from the very beginning. Schlumberger has a portfolio of unique cementing technologies and logging tools for ensuring and evaluating well integrity. Zonal isolation is created and maintained in the wellbore through the cementing process. Cement supports and protects well casings and helps prevent fluids in one zone from mixing with fluids in another zone. Cement systems that help establish zonal isolation work in a variety of reservoir conditions and remain in place throughout the life of the well. Schlumberger cementing technologies provide a wide range of solutions to achieve zonal isolation. We have developed a Well Integrity Barrier Standard containing 10 critical requirements that employees must follow on the job. The development of this standard involved a company-wide initiative to raise awareness and impose mandatory rules defining the minimum requirements for training, certification, and knowledge of the barriers we provide. We also use a risk assessment methodology to maintain sufficient controls in place to prevent the failure of any barriers we provide to our customers. Focusing on process safety, the methodology uses risk evaluation to analyze and demonstrate causal relationships in high-risk scenarios. Regularly scheduled inspections, evaluations, and testing of bulk storage containers by qualified personnel are critical parts of discharge prevention. Our inspection and testing program involves an external visual inspection along with extensive testing and examination to evaluate container integrity, taking into consideration the unique conditions of each container, including its existing condition, age, service history, original construction specifications, and previous inspection results. These inspections are site specific and they meet or exceed industry standards. Additionally, the Schlumberger Environmental Management Standard establishes a minimum level of protection for all primary containers by using secondary containment, spill preparedness and response, and prohibitions against certain activities. This require.ment is implemented even when local regulatory requirements are set to a lower standard. To identify efficient ways to reduce the number and severity of spills, in 2016, one Schlumberger subsidiary, M-I SWACO, initiated the Environmental Spill Incident Review Program and conducted a full analysis of spill incidents with an emphasis on data. The program produced qualitative and quantitative information through four corresponding initiatives: technical analysis of spill data; teamwork through quarterly spill review calls; training of personnel to understand spill causes and prevention; and tracking of global progress. By identifying trends in data and the top four causes of spills, better practices and training were put in place for spill management and prevention. The program helped to reduce M-I SWACO’s monthly spill rate by 29% from 2016 to 2019. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions strategy is driven by external and internal areas of focus. Externally, we provide a broad range of technologies and services to help our customers lower their emissions. Development of an oil and gas field can be intensive, often requiring hundreds of wells utilizing equipment for drilling and completion as well as delivery of large quantities of resources. Our technologies help our customers achieve lower emissions by reducing the delivery of resources such as proppant and water to the wellsite, and by drilling wells faster and more efficiently. Internally, we continue to direct our efforts at increasing the accuracy of our emissions measurements by adding more data sources and expanding the geographic scope of our emissions scrutiny. This work enables us to better understand our overall GHG footprint and find new ways to reduce our emissions. We have set an initial target to reduce GHG emissions from our consumption of fuel (Scope 1) and power (Scope 2) by 30% by 2025. We will revise this target accordingly once our science-based target has been defined and approved in 2021. A portion of the 2020 short-term cash incentive compensation opportunity for our CEO and other members of our senior management is based on achieving our annual internal emissions reduction objectives as part of this five-year goal. Our fuel reduction initiatives, largely involving our fleet of heavy and light vehicles, include reduced idling campaigns, behavior changes in journey management, fuel efficient technology, and conversions to electric and hybrid vehicles, as well as the development and rollout of our automatic pump idling technology. In 2019, we launched an initiative in North America to increase visibility of the idling time that occurs with our vehicles, which led to better management and reduction of idling, as well as decreased maintenance costs. For example, one North America coiled tubing crew reported a 38% reduction in annual costs and a significant reduction in associated emissions. This initiative is being implemented globally beginning in 2020. Our power reduction initiatives, focused largely on our global facility energy footprint, include employee behavior programs, energy efficiency projects, increased awareness and accuracy on baseline energy consumption data, increased use of renewables, and facility rationalization as outlined in the “Managing Facilities” section of this report. As of September 2020, Schlumberger does not use renewable fuel for its on-road equipment; however, we continue to analyze opportunities for emissions reductions in this area. We are also reviewing opportunities to decarbonize certain carbon-intensive supplies, to reduce indirect emissions coming from our supply chain. We are also examining other opportunities to reduce our indirect GHG emissions from associated input and outputs of our operations.  Water Use Optimization Responsible water management is key to our operations and perfor.mance. Through technological innovation, facility management, and corporate engagement, Schlumberger has prioritized the efficient management of resources, including water, to reduce adverse environ.mental impacts for our Company and communities around the world. By incorporating next-generation technologies and services into operations in water-stressed areas, we are preparing for a transition within our industry to meet evolving regulatory measures and community expectations. Approximately 13% of our portfolio of impact-reducing technologies align with SDG #6, clean water and sanitation. Schlumberger requires that its activities, products and services be designed, procured and used with the goal of efficiently managing resource consumption. Where reasonably practicable, Schlumberger operations and activities involving water resources must maximize the re-use of water; investigate opportunities for rainwater collection and the potential for using suitable effluent from other processes as the source of water; minimize freshwater use, especially in areas prone to seasonal, sporadic, or year-round water shortages; and if cooling water is required, use recirculating systems where feasible. When we take actions relating to water resources, we consider local circumstances such as environmental sensitivities and water availability. We also develop site-specific water resource management procedures that address the water usage requirements at our facilities and operations, as well as controls and procedures to manage related impacts. A resource management procedure for water generally identifies the applicable sources of water supply and the principle uses of water, and also includes, among other things: » A risk assessment of the suitability, quality, sustainability, and reliability of the water supply to Schlumberger and, where applicable, to other relevant stakeholders. » An assessment of opportunities to improve water use efficiency. » An assessment of the requirements for process and potable water over the lifetime of the operation or project. » Details of applicable permits and licenses, which are required to be obtained prior to sourcing water supplies. » Planned inspection and maintenance programs for water storage and supply infrastructure. Technology Advantage As a service company, Schlumberger aims to be the performance partner of choice and meet the needs of our customers, including their sustain.ability objectives and targets. Several of our customers have made public commitments to reduce their carbon emissions footprint, better protect biodiversity, and use fewer natural resources. To help our customers achieve their sustainability goals, Schlumberger currently has approxi.mately 100 technologies or solutions that reduce emissions or negative impacts on local biodiversity. Schlumberger is committed to developing innovative technologies aimed at enhancing oilfield efficiency, reducing E&P costs, improving productivity, maximizing reserve recovery, and increasing asset value—all while achieving these goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner. Our global network of Technology centers also positions Schlumberger to accelerate a diverse range of innovative technological approaches to support the energy transition. Our broad technology portfolio includes a range of impact-reducing options to help our customers decrease their environmental footprint, use cleaner chemistry, reduce waste, and increase decarbonization elements in the E&P process. Our customers seeking to address their sustainability targets choose these technologies in part because of the quantifiable reductions in planned or unplanned GHG emissions and energy consumption. We have also developed customized technology plans for our customers to address their environmental priorities (including reduction of waste, carbon emissions and water use), using the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals as a reference framework. Schlumberger is at the forefront of the rapid transition to digital technologies, artificial intelligence, and the detailed characterization and control of all operations though the proliferation of sensing and actuation devices on edge networks. Through consistent R&D investment we extensively use advanced cloud and edge computing, allowing rapid development and implementation of technologies for operational efficiency. Significant reductions in operational footprint are being achieved though remote operations and automation and control systems. These systems are also reducing environmental impact and enhancing safety. We also have a technology “watch” program to identify opportunities for commercializing revolutionary technologies being developed at our partner universities, and to connect promising university teams with our Schlumberger New Energy and Technology organizations. Some of the technologies we are “watching” relate to the use of data analytics and artificial intelligence to improve energy efficiency, as well as wellsite renewable energy technologies. Methane Reduction Methane emissions are the largest source of Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the oil and gas industry, and we believe Schlumberger can play a significant role in reducing oilfield methane emissions through the deployment of new digital technologies. To that end, in 2019 we were active in testing and developing new methane leak detection technologies. We have developed an efficient method of inspecting facilities for emission leaks using active laser sensors mounted to aircrafts. Also, as part of the Schlumberger New Energy portfolio of ventures, we have invested in GHGSat, the world’s first satellite dedicated to monitoring methane and other GHGs. In 2019, GHGSat announced the discovery of one of the world’s largest anthropogenic methane emissions sources. Additionally, we continue to monitor and collaborate on different initiatives, including as advisors on a broad study of numerous mobile methane detectors led by Stanford University. Schlumberger also recognizes that the reduction of oilfield methane emissions requires collaboration from different players in the oil and gas industry, and we continually engage with operators, academics, and innovators on this priority. We have highlighted the numerous new technologies being developed that are more effective and efficient at reducing oilfield methane emissions than existing technology, as well as emerging technologies that can be used to gauge the effectiveness of the new detectors. We are also actively following and have been involved in the evolution of the OOOOa technical rule regarding emissions standards for new and modified oil and gas facilities.  In 2019, we were asked by the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), a non-profit organization focused on climate change and other global environmental challenges, to share our thoughts on what new methods and technologies are available to reduce oil and gas methane emissions, what their impact might be, and what is needed to realize that potential. Our interview with EDF is available here. Solar Impulse Foundation Efficient Solutions Schlumberger became a partner of the Solar Impulse Foundation’s World Alliance for Efficient Solutions in 2017. The World Alliance for Efficient Solutions is working to select 1,000 technology solutions that protect the environment while maintaining profitability. When a solution’s technological feasibility, profitability, and environmental or socioeconomic benefit has been validated by subject matter experts, it receives an “Efficient Solutions Label”. Eight Schlumberger scientists and engineers volunteered as subject matter experts in 2019, and together they have assessed more than 120 submissions since the inception of the program. In 2019, Schlumberger’s THIOPAQ* biodesulfurization system was awarded the Efficient Solution label based on its ability to reduce chemical inputs and waste associated with traditional methods of natural gas processing. The THIOPAQ system uses non-hazardous and naturally occurring bacteria to convert hydrogen sulfide from biogas and conventional gas production into usable sulfur-based products, such as fertilizer. * Mark of Schlumberger Schlumberger New Energy Schlumberger has a long history of technology development and business implementation in multiple industrial sectors. In 2019, we put in place the plan for our Schlumberger New Energy businesses, which we announced publicly in 2020. This portfolio of technologies and services applies a differentiated approach to participating in the low-carbon economy and expanding our services and technology offerings beyond oil and gas. Focused on energy efficiency, energy storage, and renewable energy production, Schlumberger New Energy aims to create unique positions in adjacent markets and introduce breakthrough technologies in energy verticals while leveraging Schlumberger’s domain expertise, global footprint, and execution platform. We will also use our new partnership models combined with our experience in technology industrialization to develop a new market for Schlumberger.  Geothermal Schlumberger has served the geothermal industry by evaluating and drilling geothermal resources and, through GeothermEx, we have participated in geothermal projects in more than 50 countries, leading to the successful installation and operation of nearly 8,000 megawatts of geothermal power. Expanding on our prior geothermal industry experience, we designed an innovative way to use low-heat geothermal as a heating and cooling source for buildings and campuses, which led to the formation of Celsius Energy, a Schlumberger start-up based in France. Celsius Energy combines proprietary technology, design optimization, and modern digital control systems to offer fit-for-purpose solutions for both existing and new construction buildings, enabling a 70% reduction in overall building energy consumption from conventional sources, along with reductions in associated carbon emissions. Celsius Energy is installing its technical demonstration in our own Schlumberger Riboud Product Center in Clamart, France. For this innovative solution, Celsius Energy received the Solar Impulse Efficient Solution Label and was recognized by the United Nations and the Bloomberg 50 Climate Leaders’ Program. Hydrogen Hydrogen is a versatile energy carrier and a key component of the energy transition for many countries that have set carbon neutrality targets by 2050, making both low-carbon “blue” hydrogen and zero-emission “clean” hydrogen critical to achieving these worldwide emissions reduction objectives. We are pursuing both emerging markets for carbon-neutral hydrogen production: the first by combining carbon capture and storage (CCS) with hydrogen production using natural gas as a feedstock, and the second through water electrolysis powered by renewable electricity through Genvia. Our Genvia hydrogen production technology venture is a partnership between Schlumberger New Energy, the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA), Vinci Construction, and other partners. This venture is aimed at accelerating the development and first industrial deployment of the CEA high-temperature, high-efficiency reversible solid oxide electrolyzer technology, to produce clean hydrogen by water electrolysis using a renewable source of electricity. Carbon Services Schlumberger has been involved in more than 50 carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS) projects around the world since 2005. We help our customers avoid emissions through the provision of services and technologies for permanent geological CO2 storage. Schlumberger focuses on the challenges of storing CO2 captured from power and industrial sources underground to help mitigate climate change and protect the environment. We are continuing our participation in many CCUS projects, such as the Illinois Industrial Carbon Capture and Sequestration Project, a large-scale demonstration project designed to store 1 million tonnes of CO2 annually approximately 7,000 feet underground in the Mount Simon Sandstone. In 2019, Schlumberger participated in two new CCUS projects in the United States. We also offer technologies for monitoring and verifying CO2 storage associated with enhanced oil recovery operations. For example, we are providing CO2 monitoring services at the Farnsworth Field in Texas, where more than 1 million tonnes of CO2 from an ethanol plant in Kansas have been permanently stored underground through ongoing enhanced oil recovery operations. New Ventures Schlumberger New Energy has a portfolio of investments in promising technologies with start-up companies in a broad range of disciplines. Since 2016, Schlumberger has invested in new ventures focused on the energy transition. The two newest partnerships made in 2019 focus on mobility transformation and the move to vehicle electrification. First, our investment in Pure Energy is leading to the development of a novel, proprietary continuous process for the direct extraction of lithium from subsurface brines that increases recovery efficiency. This process returns almost all of the brine to the reservoir, using an environmentally benign method, with a significantly smaller footprint than the incumbent extraction technologies. Second, we partnered with PolyPlus, a U.S.-based battery company, to develop the next generation of rechargeable batteries with a significantly higher energy density aimed at an increased range for electric vehicles and increased safety. Our investment in PolyPlus builds on the many years of experience that Schlumberger has in developing and manufacturing innovative batteries for harsh environments. We are also participating in the circular economy via our investment in Molyworks, a U.S. start-up developing unique mechanisms for producing high quality printable metallic powder from scrap metals to convert the low value scrap into high value products. These recycling benefits include reducing mining wastes, air pollution, and water pollution, with significant energy and raw materials savings, as well as a 40% reduction in water use. Other Schlumberger New Energy investments include technologies relating to nanocrystalline cellulose as a clean viscosifying agent, wireless power, high-pressure mass spectrometry, exoskeletons, automation and remote control, and cybersecurity. 