CommunitySchlumberger’s strong focus on integrity and corporate responsibility enables us to take pride in our work and empowers us to enhance the well-being of the communities where we live and work.EducationAt Schlumberger, we focus much of our social investment on educational programs—particularly in the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines, which underpin our business.Among our many community outreach initiatives are Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED), which offers learning opportunities
for school children; HSE for Youth, which helps students understand and adopt HSE-related standards; and Faculty for the Future, which promotes higher education in STEM subjects for women leaders. Schlumberger’s STEM-Oriented Community Outreach InitiativesFaculty for the FutureHSE for YouthSEEDSchlumberger Excellence in
Education DevelopmentSchlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) is a worldwide educational outreach initiative that aims to improve opportunities for young people in disadvantaged schools within the communities where Schlumberger employees live and work. SEED is driven by the energy of employee volunteers and their families. The initiative engages students and teachers in learning-while-doing projects about global issues such as water, energy, and earth science. It aims to inspire them to value the science and technology that affect their lives and communities. SEED contributes resources for students around the world for exploring the world of
science, such as collaborative Internet and web-based projects, and it contributes hard.ware and Internet connectivity for schools. Its goal is to build a learning community with a passion for science.SEED-sponsored workshops around the world enable students to share their projects and ideas with Schlumberger specialists, as well as with other students.Making a Difference Through Teacher EducationWorkshops for a pilot Schlumberger STEM Teacher Academy in Mtwara, Tanzania, and Pemba, Mozambique, began in 2014 and will continue through 2015. The academy is enabling approximately 100 secondary school teachers of science, technology, and math to enhance their teaching skills and thereby improve their students’ grades and test scores. Teachers attend three workshops and collaborate with their assigned mentors through.out the 18-month course. Academy materials are based on local curricula to facilitate classroom integration. Results are measured through teacher progress, national student test scores, and career surveys. SEED Global Impact in 2014 STEM Teacher Training15,519203Teachers
involvedStudents
involvedSTEM Workshops by the Numbers51938STEM
workshopsTeachers2252,679StudentsVolunteersHSE for YouthHSE for Youth reflects Schlumberger’s ongoing commitment to health, safety, and the environment (HSE) for employees’ families and the communities where we live and work. Each year, this program shares the Company’s expertise with more than 4,000 young people ages 7 to 18 to help them make responsible HSE-related decisions. The program’s 2-hour workshops are focused on nine health and safety topics and use a learner-centered approach. The program operates in 52 countries, and workshops are held on average once every 2.5 days. Schlumberger employees and spouses who volunteer for the program receive training prior to organizing and facilitating the workshops.Workshop TopicsInjury PreventionPersonal SecurityClimate ChangeInternet SafetyRoad SafetyEbolaWaterMalariaHIV/AIDSFaculty for the Future: Empowering Women Scientists Around the WorldThe Schlumberger Foundation’s Faculty for the Future program enables women from developing economies to pursue advanced graduate studies in science and engineering subjects at top-tier universities around the world. Faculty for the Future builds on the link between science, technology, and socioeconomic development, as well as the key role education plays in realizing individual potential. By supporting higher education in this way, Schlumberger is contributing to bridging the gender gap in science and building an international community of women leaders in science who are prepared to make a difference in their home countries. Since its launch in 2004, the Schlumberger Foundation’s Faculty for the Future program has awarded fellowships to more than 400 women from 69 countries. During the
2014–2015 academic year, Faculty for the Future fellows pursued postdoctoral studies
in STEM disciplines—ranging from physics and mathematics to chemical engineering—
at 64 of the world’s top universities in 12 countries. After completing their studies, Faculty for the Future fellows return to their home countries, where they contribute to economic, social, and technological advancement by strengthening the teaching and
research faculties of their home institutions, and by taking positions in governments or the public sector, where their newly acquired technical and scientific skills can help provide evidence-based support for policy making.In addition to enabling women to attend graduate school, Faculty for the Future hosts an annual forum for program fellows to share their experiences and fosters cooperation while debating topics of interest. The 12th forum took place in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in November 2014. Sixty women scientists met to share their research and experiences during the 3-day event. They debated topics that included examining the barriers for women who want to study science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects, the encouragement needed for the next generation of women scientists to
succeed, and the way STEM programs can help alleviate major world health and
educational challenges. Previous forums have taken place in New York, Houston, 
London, Paris, and Abu Dhabi.2014 Faculty for the Future StatisticsHome Regions
of the
2014 Fellows2014 Faculty for the Future GrantsHealth and SafetySchlumberger works diligently to safeguard the health, well-being, and security of our employees, their dependents,
and the contractors with whom we work.Our initiatives include more than basic education on health and safety. In essence, they are awareness programs that address Schlumberger’s
standards and incorporate regular training, guidance, and monitoring. In addition, these initiatives are intended to have a ripple effect throughout the communities in which our employees live. HealthSchlumberger strives to protect the health of employees, their dependents, and our contractors—and to manage their health risks in the workplace, in the field, and during travel on Company business.Good health management enables Schlumberger to reduce illness in the workplace, increase employee and family satisfaction, minimize medical evacuations and deaths, streamline health care costs, increase customer retention and satisfaction, optimize business performance and the Company’s reputation, and reduce project disruptions while protecting the health of all involved. Schlumberger promotes industrial hygiene, ergonomics, healthy lifestyle, and preventive medicine to reduce work-related and location-specific health risks.  In-country Doctors and Health ProfessionalsSchlumberger’s network of 70 in-country doctors around the world evaluates local medical facilities, assesses the health risks at operating locations, oversees physical examinations for local employees, manages emergencies and evacuations, follows up on employee hospitalizations and return to work, and promotes Company health
training programs.In addition, more than 100 health professionals (e.g., medics, nurses, doctors) provide medical support on Company-managed rigs and seismic crews, on land, at sea, and in remote and hostile environments.Preventive CareGood health management begins with regular prevention measures. The Company promotes medical checks (Med-Track and Med-Check programs) for pre-employment candidates and regularly for employees. These checks help ensure that employees are medically fit to travel, live, and work in their assigned country—and they detect and treat pre-existing health issues before employees require hospitalization or urgent interna.tional evacuation.Health TrainingSchlumberger provides health training concerning travel risks, work-related exposures, and issues in these categories:  first aid substance abuse   hearing-loss prevention smoking   fatigue management vaccinations   food and
  waterborne diseases risks related to working in
extreme climates   insect-borne diseases, in particular, 
  malaria prevention lifting and handling to prevent
low-back injuries   HIV/AIDS ergonomics   cardiovascular illnesses stress The extreme health risks of major epidemics, such as SARS, H1N1, and Ebola—with their potential for rapid global expansion—require practical training in effective emer.gency response. Employees at all of our operating locations undergo health-risk assessments (HRAs) before new operations begin and regularly thereafter. Performed by Company-approved health professionals, HRAs address management of all health issues. The review covers medical exams, health training of employees and contractors, catering facility condi.tions, malaria programs, fitness initiatives, and vaccinations. It also covers Company-managed medical facilities on rigs, camps, and vessels—including the assessment of equipment, medications, and health professionals, along with local health facilities such as hospitals and clinics. In addition, it covers local health issues such as epidemics,
malaria, clean drinking water, ergonomics, and stress, along with local and international emergency response plans. Managing the Threat of MalariaMalaria—found mainly in sub-Saharan Africa and the Amazon River basin—is a
major occupational illness risk for the oil and gas industry, including Schlumberger. Between 2000 and 2002, four Schlumberger employees originating from non-malaria countries died of malaria. In response to these deaths, Schlumberger developed a world-recognized malaria prevention program with four components:..awareness and training campaigns..a curative malaria kit developed by Schlumberger for rapid diagnosis and curative treatment—also used today by more than 20 other oil and gas companies worldwide..a 24/7 malaria emergency hotline..a specific malaria emergency response plan.The positive impact of this program is clear: We have decreased our malaria deaths from four between 2000 and 2002 (2-year period) to three between 2003 and 2015
(12-year period).Occupational HealthEach of our operating locations has a specific preventive-training program with a major focus on occupational health. These are some of the work-related hazards included in the program:  ergonomics noise   vibration pressure   ionizing and nonionizing radiation thermal work environment   manual handling and prevention of
  repetitive stress injury confined-space entry   working at heights chemicals, including carcinogens,
mutagens, and heavy metals Safety Schlumberger’s commitment to safety is included in our Code of Conduct, which also details the Company expectations and regulatory compliance requirements for all
Schlumberger employees. Our corporate HSE Policy is publically available.Shared Responsibility for SafetySchlumberger strives to safeguard health and security, to operate our business safely, and to protect the environment. We maintain a safe and productive work environment that is free of alcohol, controlled substances, and illegal drugs. Schlumberger operations are supported by a robust safety management system. We design our equipment and workplaces to enable safe operations. We require reporting of hazardous situations and conditions to identify opportunities for improvement. We provide comprehensive training in injury prevention, hazard identification, and risk assessment, prevention, and mitiga.tion. We empower and obligate employees to stop a job and intervene if they consider a situation to be unsafe, a practice fully supported by Company management.Crisis Management In 2014, Schlumberger continued with initiatives to improve its HSE training programs for operational personnel, line management, and HSE professionals. A specific focus in 2014 was crisis leadership management and communication train.ing, which involved seven specific training courses for 182 delegates. This training incorporates best practices in crisis management techniques and practices using global academic experts and expertise from within the Company. In addition, we conducted a corporate-level crisis management exercise and one realistic crisis management exer.cise for each geographic operational area.Contractor and Supplier ManagementIn 2014, Schlumberger strengthened contractor management initiatives and revised the global-contract HSE and workplace condition requirements within our global supply chain. These contractual conditions specify the minimum HSE requirements for contrac.tors when on sites managed by Schlumberger. The requirements include compliance with Schlumberger policies for substance abuse and driving, as well as compliance with site rules, such as the use of safe systems of work (permit to work, isolation, equipment guarding, and use of safety systems), PPE, intervening to stop the job if unsafe acts or conditions are observed, reporting events and incidents, and complying with applicable regulatory requirements. Schlumberger has established requirements for the suppliers and contractors we
engage, with a view to establishing a relationship that promotes responsible, collabora.tive, social, environmental, and economic practices. Contractors and suppliers must comply with the defined labor-workplace health, safety, and security requirements.HSE Reporting and Performance DataSchlumberger captures HSE performance data through an online, enterprise-level
business system, which consolidates all HSE information. Accessible by all employees, this system allows them to monitor reported HSE events, incidents, observations, and Risk Identification Reports. Schlumberger employees are actively encouraged to report, and we use the data to benchmark our performance against industry data sources. We monitor trends and identify areas of concern for continuous improvement. In addition, the system’s functionality facilitates the investigation process and the management of remedial work plans to resolve incidents, identify learning opportunities, and incorpo.rate the lessons learned by improving our facilities, equipment, processes, and systems to prevent incidents from recurring. It is also used to record audits and improvement suggestions, post recognitions, track HSE training, and analyze HSE data. This system is also used to assign job-specific online HSE training and to facilitate and track the testing and certification of computer-based training material.HSE Management SystemThe Schlumberger HSE Management System states the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide with regard to health, safety, and the environment in a proac.tive manner. Our management communicates the HSE philosophy to all employees, customers, contractors, and third parties associated with our business, and each Schlumberger organization must provide evidence of conformance to the system.The HSE Management System comprises eight interrelated elements:   commitment, leadership, and accountability risk management   policies and objectives business processes   organization and resources performance monitoring
and improvement   contractor and supplier management audits and reviews 2014 HSE Reporting System StatisticsThe Company gives employees the necessary authority and resources to effectively implement the HSE management system. We establish and clearly communicate HSE priorities, objectives, requirements, and accountabilities for continual improvement of both the management system and HSE performance.Our HSE Management System comprises corporate health, safety, and environmental standards, all of which must be implemented in all Schlumberger operations. Our
employees are empowered and obligated to stop the job and intervene when they consider a situation to be unsafe, and this practice is fully supported by the Company’s management.In 2014, Schlumberger released three HSE standards, each revised with a risk-based approach to the subject matter: Health Standard, Environment Standard, and Personal Protective Equipment Standard. We are revising other existing HSE standards to follow the risk-based approach, as well as developing and pilot testing a new HSE standard fully aligned with industry best practices to address dropped objects and work at height.Schlumberger Fatalities by YearPerformance SnapshotThe International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) annually reports
upstream oil and gas work-related safety performance statistics. The data
include incidents related to both Company employees and associated contractors
engaged in work-related activities. The IOGP definitions and reporting criteria are used to determine these safety data for Schlumberger:..FAR (Fatal Accident Rate)..CLTIF (Combined Lost-Time Incident Frequency)..TRIF (Total Recordable Incident Frequency)..AARm (Automotive Accident Rate in Miles).							2012	2013	2014Contractor fatalities					4	2	4Employee fatalities					3	3	4In 2014, Schlumberger suffered eight fatalities; four were employees, and four were contractors. Two of the fatalities involved a commercial aircraft, which to date has not been recovered, so no investigation was possible. The other six fatalities were the result of four incidents, which were thoroughly investigated and reviewed by Schlumberger senior management. Two fatalities resulted from a helicopter crash, three from two separate land-transportation incidents, and one—a contractor fatality—from a fall
from height.Associated lessons learned were communicated companywide—to both employees and contractors—designed to prevent recurrence and ensure continuous improvement
in HSE management.In 2014, Schlumberger continued Live and Learn, our multiannual awareness campaign to communicate the lessons learned from fatal incidents and high risks in eight catego.ries: pressure, contractor management, driving, mechanical lifting, security, malaria, work at height, and dropped objects. Schlumberger Health and Safety StatisticsCombined Lost-Time Incidents
(IOGP)Fatal Accidents
(IOGP)Rate Per 100 Million 
Work hoursFrequencyTotal Recordable Incidents
(IOGP)Automotive Accident RateFrequency Per Million Work HoursMilesDriving SafetyDespite significant efforts to improve safety, driving continues to be the work-related activity with the highest associated risk in the upstream oil and gas industry and within Schlumberger. Many emerging and developing countries have experienced a rapid increase in the number and diversity of road users, which has outpaced corresponding improvements in infrastructure, regulation, and enforcement of driving laws. This upsurge has resulted in a corresponding increased risk of road incidents, presenting growing challenges for organizations in the management of their global driving activities. Variations in the levels and types of risks in different countries and regions add to the complexity of effectively managing driver safety.Our risk-based driving and journey management approach has enabled Schlumberger to more effectively manage driving activities in more than 85 countries—including more than 50,000 drivers, 25,000 vehicles, and more than 550 million miles driven per year. Every Schlumberger employee, from field to office, is required to take regular driver training. We provide fit-for-purpose training, including the use of driving simulators and driver-improvement monitors to provide real-time, in-vehicle driving performance feed.back. We also have begun sharing our experience and expertise with our customers and community members through our HSE for Youth and community outreach programs. Our comprehensive driver management system consolidates, leverages, and augments the best practices of our various business groups to eliminate accidents systematically through training, journey and trip management, safe driving behavior, and compliance (Code of Conduct, p. 8). Employees whose jobs involve driving must comply with journey management and spe.cific safe driving requirements. For example: ..All vehicle occupants must wear seat belts. ..Drivers are not allowed to use mobile phones or electronic devices while driving, even if the device is hands-free...Drivers must bring their vehicle to a complete stop before using any such device.Our driving safety practices are respected throughout the industry. In 2005, the
International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) adopted our driving standard as the foundation of its recommended land-transportation practices. Our performance continued to improve in 2014, with a strong focus on driving and jour.ney management. We also made good progress toward our overall goal of reducing our accident injury rate, which decreased by 16% compared with the previous year.Despite this focus on safety, we suffered three fatalities directly related to driving in 2014, and we will continue to make this a safety priority. To guard against the risks that land transportation presents, we continue to deploy journey management centers around the world to reinforce safe driving practices. These centers serve more than
40 countries with real-time journey tracking in 12 languages, 24 hours a day, 7 days
a week.Experience has shown that driver behavior and lack of compliance with driving stan.dards are the most common factors contributing to automotive incidents in the oil and gas industry—factors that the new Schlumberger global journey management centers are effectively addressing. The approach delivers increased support for drivers throughout a journey and reinforces safe driving behaviors. The centers ensure that every trip is verified for compliance with journey management procedures—with higher-risk driving environments subject to more stringent controls and standards. Real-time tracking monitors driving behavior and provides immediate feedback to drivers. By defining, measuring, and shaping driving behaviors, the centers help drivers continuously improve their performance. With these journey management centers, we can monitor and control 94% of all trips made in countries we consider to exhibit medium-high driving risk. The surveillance and support of this program will further improve driver performance during the next
few years.Injury Prevention Schlumberger is committed to injury prevention for all employees and applicable con.tractors, all the time and everywhere, through the effective implementation of industry and our Company best practices to prevent and mitigate injury and risk. An analysis of our HSE data revealed that almost 40% of personal injuries were related to hands and fingers. Although the overall number of personal injuries has decreased during the past 10 years, limited improvement has occurred in this category. Our hand and finger injury workshops and other programs are now in place to mitigate this risk.One of the most critical steps in mitigating risks associated with a particular job is to ensure that employees have the correct tools and the proper personal protective equip.ment (PPE) to perform a task. Using PPE is essential to mitigating injury consequences, even after engineering controls, work practices, and administrative controls have reduced risks as far as reasonably practicable. Engineering controls involve physically changing a machine or work environment. Work practices involve training workers to perform tasks in ways that reduce their exposure to workplace hazards. Administrative controls involve changing how and when workers do their jobs, such as scheduling work and rotating workers to reduce exposures.The Schlumberger contractor and employee lost-time injury frequency (LTIF) numbers have decreased since 2012.2014 Accident Injury RateEmployee Lost-Time Injury Frequency
(Per Million Work Hours)Contractor Lost-Time Injury Frequency
(Per Million Work Hours)FrequencyFrequencySocial and Economic ImpactActing ethically requires more than simply complying with laws and regulations. It also recognizes that our decisions affect others. By keeping this idea foremost in our minds, we earn the respect, trust, and confidence of our customers, colleagues, shareholders, and others affected by our operations worldwide.We contribute to the social development of the communities where we live and work by supporting initiatives that improve youth education and living conditions. We foster the economic development of these communities by recruiting, hiring, training, promoting from within, and complying withlocal laws.Investing LocallyPhilanthropic Activities 
Schlumberger’s philanthropic activities are chosen strategically to reflect the Company’s values and long-term interests and to enhance our communities. We focus on a limited range of social issues that call for strategic involvement and partnerships with community organizations.Most of our donations are categorized as community investments. Our largest are through the Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) and the Schlumberger Foundation’s signature Faculty for the Future programs. Both are strategically aligned to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education. We also pursue long-term partnerships with community organizations to address social issues and align with our corporate objectives.Care Grants Schlumberger Cares, which is currently being piloted in North America, allows employ.ees to request a grant for any organization at which they volunteer. Grant requests must apply to the educational, health and wellness, and community organizations that are strategically aligned with our business and sustainability objectives.Commercial Initiatives Our business-related activities in the community are usually undertaken by our market.ing communication departments in partnership with charities and community-based organizations to promote our corporate and brand identities and other policies and guidelines. Our largest commercial investments are donations made to academia for basic and applied research that we conduct in partnership with top universities. We also contribute millions of dollars annually in reservoir software, training, and support to these universities.Charitable Donations We offer support to specific causes in response to the needs and appeals of charitable and community organizations, requests from employees, and reactions to events such
as emergencies. These donations occur regularly but are directed and recorded by
local Schlumberger management and employees regionally. Two examples are the Orphan Day Program in Egypt and our employment program in Ecuador for people with special needs.Support of the ArtsOur long-standing interest in the arts and art education began in the days of Dominique de Menil, Conrad Schlumberger’s daughter, whose passion for the arts led to the
founding of the Menil Collection in Houston. We have continued a partnership with the Menil Collection and have assisted with its educational programming through the years. Schlumberger also supports Theater Under the Stars, Houston Grand Opera, Alley
Theatre, and the Ensemble Theatre—all in Houston, as well as the Metropolitan
Museum of Art in New York City. These connections and partnerships help introduce first-class art venues and performances to children of all socioeconomic levels. The
annual SEED program hosts art contests for children around the world. We plan to partner with the American Geosciences Institute to launch a global art contest focused on the geosciences that will feature both visual and electronic arts, including art developed through computer coding. As a generous contributor to STEM education, we value the role of the arts in developing the next generation of scientists and engineers. In-kind GivingOur in-kind contributions to the community include Schlumberger products, equipment, services, and other noncash items, as well as 3D printers, refurbished computers, office supplies, and office furniture. 2014 Contributions$10.7 M$18 MCommercial
initiativesCommunity
investmentsSTEM Education We measure our engagement in the community most thoroughly through our signature education programs in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). These STEM programs offer opportunities and training for teachers and students from their primary school years through the doctoral level, with Schlumberger support available at all levels. In 2014, we collaborated with a researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Boston and partnered with Rice University in Houston for K through 12 STEM workshops in coding and energy education. We also provided STEM teacher training to more than 200 teachers in Mozambique, Tanzania, Ecuador, and the United States.The Schlumberger Foundation’s Faculty for the Future program sponsored more than 400 young women from developing countries for attendance at top-tier universities around the world. Their full scholarships, through the doctoral level, benefit not only the individual women but also their communities. Human RightsSchlumberger has committed itself publicly to supporting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948. This commit.ment is articulated in the Schlumberger Blue Print in Action—Our Code of Conduct, which was revised and released in April 2014. It states, “Schlumberger endorses the aspirations of the International Bill of Rights and encourages work that augments the contributions that business can make to preserve and respect human dignity.”In 2009, we established our social responsibility process and began conducting risk
assessments of projects with large footprints in countries where we have new
operations, in frontier countries, and in countries with emerging issues. These include
Australia, Chad, China, Colombia, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, India, Iraq, Kenya, Mexico, Mozambique, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Romania, Tanzania, Thailand, Uganda, and the United States. In 2010, Schlumberger reviewed 400 statements of Company policy, standards, and guidelines against the Business and Human Rights Matrix developed by the Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights, creating a comprehensive map of the relevant
human rights issues and gaps to be addressed by Schlumberger.In 2011, we completed a review of customer and peer human rights statements and
policies to further our understanding of the United Nations’ “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, a declaration clarifying the responsibilities of business in relation to human rights.Supply ChainSchlumberger constantly reviews supply chain processes to ensure quality in our services and products. A single weak link in a local supply chain can reverse years of environmental, economic, and social progress. Therefore, we closely monitor this side of our business, ensuring that every supplier we select adheres to and complies with Schlumberger’s strict standards.Schlumberger Supply Chain Services provides our field and manufacturing locations with supplier management, strategic sourcing, and logistics and inventory management. In today’s competitive global economy, we know that strong relationships with our sup.pliers are more important than ever in our efforts to meet our own needs and those of our customers. Our preferred suppliers are those who work with us in a professional, ethical, competi.tive, and cost-effective manner consistent with Schlumberger policies, procedures, and business objectives. We believe that this type of supplier relationship encourages the use of supply chain best practices and adds value for all involved.In evaluating potential suppliers, Schlumberger considers delivery price, reliability, operational costs, and after-sales support. We procure goods and services only from financially stable, technically qualified, and reliable sources. Guiding Principles: Our Corporate ValuesSchlumberger is committed to, and expects from its employees and suppliers, the high.est ethical standards of business conduct and compliance with laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. These standards are incorporated into our Code of Conduct and our daily supply chain activities.Health, Safety, and the EnvironmentPrevention of accidental risk and loss from process failure is an integral part of our continuous improvement culture. Suppliers must provide all products and services to specified HSE standards and should monitor these standards using a quality assurance program. Supplier staff and delivery partners must comply with local HSE requirements and laws.Local HiresSchlumberger hires workers in-country whenever possible. By doing so, we are able to expand our global footprint in a competitive marketplace and establish a hospitable and receptive environment for our businesses in foreign markets. Moreover, foreign
nationals in their home environments better understand the challenges of doing busi.ness locally. Hiring locally also helps ensure that our dollars are invested in the local economy through local employment and vendor opportunities. More importantly for Schlumberger, the practice not only helps local economies expand their business
opportunities but also fosters our involvement with the community.Local Suppliers We use only world-class local vendors and contractors of goods and services. For these suppliers, we willingly invest our time and resources to develop their business process.es to meet our HSE and quality standards. Our investment builds the competitiveness of local vendors in the domestic oilfield services market and potentially in export markets. For example, we share our well-respected HSE practices and expect our local vendors to embrace them. These practices include our safety training, driver training, installation of in-vehicle monitors, and vehicle maintenance standards. Through this training, we share in-house best practices and indirectly promote increased competitiveness in the industry and marketplace. Our vision for our interconnected communities is that they will welcome our presence and respect our business practices for the long term. We promote their confidence through our social investments, our ethical conduct, and the opportunities we offer for participation in business and community activities. In 2014, Schlumberger entered a new phase of community outreach. All of our social investments are now underpinned by these two core principles: They must be connected to our business and rooted in the communities where we work, and they must be focused, streamlined, and accountable.Information for Potential Schlumberger Suppliers
Schlumberger Supply Chain Services distributes detailed information about procure.ment policies and guidelines, processes, and the procedure for becoming an approved supplier. We share this information with potential suppliers to ensure mutually support.ive relationships.Supply Chain Management
Schlumberger maintains a Spend & Supplier Management Dashboard that analyzes spend by supplier, commodity, geography, business segment, legacy company, and trend over time. Schlumberger supplier managers are responsible for evaluating suppli.ers against our established performance metrics in order for them to be included in our approved supplier list. Total procurement spend (100%) is presented in the spend analy.sis conducted within the last 3 years.Audits of Tier 1 SuppliersAs part of due diligence, Schlumberger audits various tier 1 and high-risk suppliers around the world. Supplier managers are responsible for evaluating suppliers against Schlumberger’s established metrics to be selected as critical suppliers in the approved supplier list.Share of Total
Procurement SpentAbsolute Number of Tier 1 SuppliersCritical suppliers2,14462%Total suppliers61,760100%Raising the Bar TogetherAt Schlumberger, we require that our suppliers support relationships promoting respon.sible, collaborative, social, environmental, and economic practices. We seek suppliers who can demonstrate these commitments:..implementing risk-based due diligence processes to gauge actual or potential
adverse impacts associated with labor and working conditions..establishing similar guidelines for their own suppliers concerning labor and
working conditions..complying with the laws, rules, and regulations of the countries where they operate..adhering to existing industry guidelines, in particular, those that are more stringent than local laws.2014 Sustainability Enhancements in the Supply ChainProjectBenefitsReduced lead-time and reduced costsRight sourcing of products near
their consumptionImproved quality of purchased goods and services by using preferred suppliersProcurement centralization using
preferred suppliersAdded local suppliers, reducing transpor.tation costsCapacity-building efforts in Angola, Brazil, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, and MexicoDiversified sources of supply for improved competitivenessExpanding of developed capabilities in Argentina, Oman, India, and BrazilSustainability Initiatives in the Supply ChainIdentifying New Local CapacitySchlumberger is investigating the feasibility of supplier capacity-building programs in several countries. In Mexico, for example, we have worked extensively with local sup.pliers to bring their HSE and quality standards to a level that permits them to compete in the U.S. oilfield services sector. In 2014, we conducted supply chain capacity-building feasibility studies in Kazakhstan, Angola, Indonesia, and Brazil, and identified commodi.ties, goods, and services that qualify for additional support to suppliers and to
organizations supporting suppliers. Schlumberger Talent Assessment and Recognition Program Fosters Supply Chain CandidatesThe Schlumberger Talent Assessment and Recognition (STAR) Supply Chain Program in Africa focuses on identifying and recognizing African talent, from students to professionals, with industry supply chain experience. Selected students receive spon.sorships and internships. Recent graduates join a structured learning and development program for as long as 12 months and then gain access to supply chain job postings around the world. For experienced supply chain professionals, we offer individual training programs and career plans.Expanded Supplier NetworkSchlumberger has examined the quality of suppliers over the past to qualify critical new suppliers in countries such as Argentina, Oman, Egypt, India, and Brazil. As a result, our deeper understanding has revealed previously unforeseen opportunities in local and international markets for projects ranging from the sourcing of raw materials such as sand, guar, and cement to the manufacture and machining of equipment and parts, including cabins, tanks, pressure vessels, and casing accessories.Battery Recycling Programs—Designed for Supply ChainLiquid cathode lithium metal batteries are commonly used in the oil and gas industry to power sensors in remote downhole applications. Schlumberger manufactures custom battery packs made with different liquid cathode lithium chemistries and unique cell electrode constructions, and we recycle almost 100% of the lithium metal batteries we manufacture, which minimizes the environmental impact of our lithium metal battery usage. This high standard is consistently achieved and documented through an ongoing program to routinely audit our waste battery col.lection points and contracted recycling facility.Waste Electrical Electronic Equipment Directive
In accordance with the European Union (EU) Waste Electrical Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive 2002/96/EC and Schlumberger environmental procedures and guidelines, Schlumberger provides information to organizations within the European Economic Area (EEA) regarding the presence and location of dangerous materials and preparations, if any,
in Schlumberger electrical equipment, as well as information about repairing, maintaining, and processing equipment at the end of its life.Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of ChemicalsRegistration Evaluation, Authorisation, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) is an EU regulation [(EC) No. 1907/2006] on chemical substances that covers manufacturing,
importing, placing, and use in the EEA. This regulation provides a high level of protection to human health and the environment by making people responsible for understanding and managing the risks associated with chemical use.For many decades, we controlled and rigorously managed the purchase, storage, and use of chemicals. With the release of the REACH regulation, we launched a proactive program with our suppliers to precisely identify the source and composition of
purchased chemicals and to improve compliance.Our REACH programs have generated an overall cost savings of approximately
$10.1 million in 2013 and the first quarter of 2014. The robustness of our system was
demonstrated after two successful audits performed by Italian and Hungarian
authorities in 2014.Conflict-free Mineral Supply Chain Schlumberger recognizes that there are serious human rights abuses associated with the extraction, transportation, and trade in minerals in the covered countries. We have always supported responsible sourcing of materials from suppliers that share our val.ues, and we commit to avoiding contributing to the conflict through our sourcing activity.As expressed in our Code of Conduct (our Blue Print in Action), Schlumberger does not tolerate any corruption of any kind in dealings with our suppliers, and we expect our suppliers to adhere to the same standard. We work with our suppliers in a socially responsible and ethical manner. A potential supplier is selected and retained only after it has evidenced in writing its adherence to our Code of Conduct and other internal compli.ance requirements, including health, safety, and environmental. In addition, we audit our top suppliers every 2 years to ensure adherence to our Code of Conduct. We have developed a Conflict Minerals Policy to supplement our Code of Conduct.We periodically review our Conflict Minerals Policy, which supplements our suppliers’ basic obligations to comply with Schlumberger standards, to ensure the policy’s ongoing suitability. We have taken a variety of actions to comply with this policy...We have identified the conflict minerals necessary for the production and
functionality of covered products that we sell...We perform supply chain due diligence in general accordance with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s internationally recognized and estab.lished due diligence framework...We expect our direct suppliers to perform similar due diligence on the sources of conflict minerals in their supply chains, and we expect them to require their own sup.pliers to do the same...When a validated conflict-free supply chain or a robust mineral-tracing program is
established, we expect our direct suppliers to procure minerals using only that
validated supply chain...If a direct supplier provides us with minerals that have not been procured through a validated supply chain or that are found to have financed a conflict, we recommend that the supplier seek an alternative means of sourcing to prevent our possible termi.nation of the supplier relationship.Stakeholder EngagementOur business has a great number of stakeholders, including our own employees, our customers and suppliers, our stockholders, our communities, and the participants of our collaborations and outreach programs.Their expectations of us vary and—depending on needs and circumstances—change over time. Our job is to stay connected with all of these groups and many more, to listen to their concerns, and to respond promptly with respect and clarity. To do this, we communicate continuously with employees, customers, and suppliers, meet regularly with investors, join industry initiatives and partnerships, participate in academic affiliations and discussions, and engage fully in community meetings.Stakeholder engagement is a critical, ongoing process that enables Schlumberger to adapt to the changing expectations and needs of important stakeholder groups.We use the information that we determine to be the most relevant to our stakeholders in communicating through our sustainability report and financial disclosures.We also seek feedback from our stakeholders to align our global business model with local and national priorities—always engaging under the principles of respect, honesty, inclusion, and transparency.Our Stakeholders Customer StakeholdersWe consider customers extremely important stakeholders, and we must live up to their trust in us, particularly with sensitive and confidential information. Maintaining our repu.tation for integrity and fair dealing is vitally important in winning and retaining this trust.By engaging with our customers on sustainability issues, we better understand their needs and concerns. This clarity enables us to invest in technology and solutions that more directly suit our customers and others in the marketplace. The interactions help us align our strategic planning with theirs—and bring value to our customers.We also strive to present customers with a clear vision of our ethical approach to
business. To do this effectively, we must ensure that all of our employees share this
vision and are prepared to communicate our message coherently and consistently.Employee StakeholdersOur continued success depends on recruiting, training, and retaining employees whose expectations and ambitions best fit our diverse business environment and distinct cul.ture and brand. Employees who stay motivated, feel inspired by their work and role in the workplace, and are connected and committed to the Schlumberger brand and message are our most credible ambassadors. They become the face of Schlumberger for our cus.tomers, potential employees, the public, and other stakeholders—even our competitors.Continuing education is an integral part of employee development at Schlumberger. All employees prepare annual training and development plans with their managers and agree on specific training actions for the year. Training is delivered through teacher-led, classroom-based instruction; live simulations; self-paced e-learning from in-house and external sources; and virtual environments.A global network of learning centers offers year-round courses. Schlumberger has tech.nical communities and special-interest groups around the world where employees share their knowledge and ideas. We also develop employees for career mobility by exposing them to other roles that cross geographical borders, business segments, and functions.Schlumberger maintains a Company-level grievance-reporting mechanism, described in our Code of Conduct, that enables employees to report their concerns anonymously. Through this process, we enable employees to take an active role in protecting the
Company’s reputation and corporate interests. Shareholder and Investor StakeholdersSchlumberger maintains a dialogue with investors as a primary principle of its corpo.rate culture. The Company goes far beyond regulatory requirements in communicating information that facilitates intelligent investor decisions on the part of major institutions and individual members of the public. Schlumberger undertakes an extensive range of initiatives to inform investors of its financial performance, strategies, acquisitions, and outlook. They include the following:..public speeches and investor conference presentations by senior managers..face-to-face meetings with investors and analysts at conferences, in visits to their offices, and in hosting them at Company facilities..investor tours, often with analysts, of Company facilities worldwide, including North America, the Middle East, China, Latin America, Northern Europe, etc...Company-hosted 2-day Investor Conferences, held every 2 or 3 years, where manage.ment gives its broad outlook with specific results and projections..conference calls to discuss specific Company events, such as acquisitions..Investor Relations website offering complete financial performance data on the Company..periodic emails to the institutional market containing important information and links..quarterly conference calls by senior management to discuss earnings results..dedicated availability of Investor Relations senior staff to answer market inquiriesSchlumberger utilizes G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines established by the Global Reporting Initiative. We also participate with a number of third-party firms that collect and report on corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance. ..Bloomberg Dashboard: ESG data provided worldwide on the Bloomberg
Professional Service..RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA): An evaluation of companies’ ESG performance that provides the basis for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index..FTSE4Good: A series of indices measuring the ethical performance of corporations..CDP: A global organization that works with large institutional shareholders to identify climate risk in their investment portfoliosCommunity StakeholdersOur social responsibility process is included in our large-footprint projects to assess and help manage the impact of our field operations on communities. The process guiding our long-term commercial agreements to develop and comanage customer oilfield assets considers both our plan and the minimum technical requirements for managing social issues, which align with the World Bank Group’s International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability. Project and operational management considerations include the following:..schedule delays..statistics for nonproductive time (NPT) due to community disturbances (e.g., work stoppages, threats, demonstrations, road blockages)..the number of legitimate complaints received from community stakeholders..the percentage of complaints resolved within a prescribed time frame. We present a range of social and environmental performance indicators at quarterly review meetings to give our top-level managers a realistic picture of the operating environment.Underlying all of our operations, the Schlumberger Environment Standard provides specific stakeholder engagement guidelines that set out our requirements for preparing environmental impact assessments and community impact management plans.Since our social responsibility process was enacted in 2009, we have completed more than 25 social risk assessments in more than 15 countries across 5 continents.Our social responsibility tool kit, designed for projects with a high potential for signifi.cant social and environmental impact, focuses on three integrated phases: planning, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation. We use the information we collect during the planning phase to analyze potential social problems and identify possible prevention and mitigation measures.Supplier StakeholdersAn organization with a global presence, Schlumberger Supply Chain Services pursues supplier business relationships based on cooperation, trust, reliability, and communi.cation. We procure products and services through manufacturers and suppliers that demonstrate high standards for quality, exceptional levels of service, competitive pric.ing, solid delivery performance, effective after-sales support, and efficient supply chain management.Industry StakeholdersSchlumberger manages and coordinates active relationships with numerous industry organizations. Most notably, we are members of the American Petroleum Institute (API), the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG), and International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP). We have nonmember affiliations with organizations such as IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. We hold nonpolitical positions and adhere to a do-not-lobby philosophy. As a result, these groups frequently call on us for technical advice and guidance.University StakeholdersSchlumberger is a technology company with a large proportion of engineers, scientists, and employees with advanced degrees. Our success depends on continuous innovation and excellence in execution by highly specialized and trained employees—and through technological breakthroughs that we can incorporate into our own services and our research and engineering programs. Our relationships with more than 500 universities and other academic institutions around the world offer us a rich source of potential employees.We have engaged formally with universities since 1954. We established a University
Relations program in 2011 whose goal has been both to help develop future petrotechnical leaders and to positively influence novel sciences and energy technology worldwide.Government StakeholdersGovernment and regulatory officials and other stakeholders seek out Schlumberger experts for their knowledge and experience in many aspects of the oil and gas industry. Although the Company is politically neutral and does not lobby, we routinely help regula.tory officials understand the technologies and processes that can reduce emissions and carbon footprint.We engage with policy makers in a wide variety of capacities:..We committed $25 million in sponsorship funding to the Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP)...We have served as an industrial sponsor and Executive Committee member for the International Energy Agency’s Greenhouse Gas Research and Development program (IEA GHG) and as a member of the agency’s technical networks addressing monitor.ing, risk assessment, wellbore integrity, modeling, and social research...We have served as an industrial sponsor and member of the Executive Committee of the International Energy Agency’s Clean Coal Centre (IEA CCC)...We were a founding member of the Global CCS Institute (GCCSI) and have partici.pated in numerous international meetings...We have served as an Advisory Committee member of the European Technology Platform for Zero Emission Fossil Fuel Power Plants (ZEP) and have participated in numerous working groups...We have participated as a member of the North America Carbon Capture and Storage Association (NACCSA)...We were a founding member of the Board of Directors of the U.K. Carbon Capture and Storage Association (CCSA)...We are a member of the Board of Directors of the U.K. Carbon Capture and Storage Research Centre (UK CCS RC)...We have donated numerous times to the University College London Carbon Capture Legal Programme (CCLP)...We have served as a member of the stakeholder group of the Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum...We have served as project manager, technology supplier, and member of a research consortium of Australia’s CO2CRC Otway Project, a large research and geosequestra.tion demonstration project.Regulatory Agency-Sponsored Research ProjectsSchlumberger engages in many research projects that demonstrate how carbon capture and storage (CCS) can be carried out safely and effectively. For example, in the United States, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Underground Injection and Control (UIC) Program’s Class VI category of wells, which are designed to regulate all carbon
dioxide injection and storage, is a significant departure from previous UIC classes of wells. The new regulations require technical knowledge in areas such as financial
assurance, monitoring, and modeling, including the modeling of plume behavior. 