Nature Schlumberger has identified three key environmental priorities that are significant for our operations: safeguarding biodiversity, protecting natural resources, and enabling circularity. These priorities were chosen based on customer and industry imperatives, applicability, impact, and risk. Safeguarding Biodiversity Schlumberger designs and manages its operations to minimize the impact on ecosystems and biodiversity across the lifecycle of each facility, activity, product, or service. Protecting Natural Resources We strive to minimize our impact on the environment by preventing pollution, reducing natural resource consumption and emissions, and reducing and recycling waste. Enabling Circularity Schlumberger enables circularity through responsible resource procurement in conjunction with engineered solutions to promote the longevity of product use. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Safeguarding Biodiversity Schlumberger has developed a risk-based procedure for the creation of ecosystem and biodiversity management plans to minimize, mitigate, and manage ecosystem and biodiversity impacts. These plans are designed to protect sensitive wildlife areas, flora and fauna, ecosystems, and conservation areas. They are designed to prevent the introduction of invasive species, and they establish conditions to facilitate the rehabilitation or restoration of land areas impacted by Schlumberger activities. Risk assessments are performed before the initiation of any business activities, to assess potential impacts of current and planned activities on biodiversity. This is done to mitigate and monitor impacts throughout the contract life cycle. Schlumberger facilities are designed to minimize the physical footprint to reduce potential environmental impacts. Schlumberger designs and manages its operations to minimize the impact on ecosystems and biodiversity across the life cycle of each facility, activity, product, and service. Appropriate risk controls are applied when Schlumberger operates in environmentally sensitive areas, including areas that have the potential for impact to wildlife or where operations could possibly introduce invasive species or could impact a large body of land or water. Furthermore, we aim to preserve the indigenous vegetation of the land when we build worksites and use native plants and species when rehabilitating worksites. Schlumberger endeavors to use existing infrastructure to avoid or reduce the need for land clearance for construction and seeks to avoid environmentally sensitive areas when building new infrastructure. We strive to minimize environmental disturbance, restrict the movement of machinery and equipment during work activities, plan land restoration, and schedule activities that may cause disruption and disturbance to wildlife as appropriate to avoid sensitive periods of the year. Our biodiversity actions focus mainly on these four areas: • Protecting Wildlife - Measures are taken to avoid interactions with wildlife to prevent potential health and safety incidents associated with our activities and operations. Furthermore, activities are planned to avoid disruption of wildlife movements and habitats. In locations where wildlife interactions cannot be avoided, arrangements are made to accommodate movements to minimize potential harm. • Rehabilitation and Restoration of Land - Planning is undertaken to rehabilitate and restore land associated with our assets and infrastructure to either the condition of the site prior to activities or a condition suitable for the land’s next intended use. Our ecosystem and biodiversity risk management processes and our environmental spill and emergency response procedures set forth that all required remediation and restoration activities occur concurrently with our operations, both at Schlumberger facilities and at our customers’ worksites. • Prevention and Management of Land Contamination -Environmental assessments are conducted prior to acquisition and entry onto new facilities, to evaluate past and current impacts to soil, bodies of water, and any environmentally sensitive receptors as part of the due diligence process. Minimum setback distances or restrictions are put in place for activity infrastructure in proximity to flood-prone areas, watercourses, wetlands, and individual and public water supplies. During the disassembly of surface facilities or equipment, land contamination is avoided by using ground protection measures inclusive of secondary containment and impermeable layers. • Decommissioning and Abandonment - Worksites that show visible signs of impact of our activities or are known sites of previous spills and releases are remediated, and soil samples are tested to show that the soil has been returned to either the condition of the site prior to activities, or a condition suitable for the next intended use in accordance with commitments made in contracts, permits and legislation. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Protecting Natural Resources As a company in an extractive industry, Schlumberger realizes the importance of respecting and protecting the world’s natural resources. To that effect, we are currently developing a formal water stewardship strategy—beyond our existing water management process—that will include metering and future water risk assessments. These actions will help us identify water conservation opportunities and better understand the locations where our facilities, employees, and suppliers are most vulnerable to water risks. Water and Waste Conservation Practices Schlumberger is committed to responsibly managing shared water resources by minimizing water use and effluent discharge. We require that our activities, products, and services be designed, procured, and used with the goal of efficiently managing resource consumption. Schlumberger operations and activities involving water resources must seek to maximize the reuse of water; investigate opportunities for rainwater collection and the potential for using suitable effluent from other processes as the source of water; minimize freshwater use, especially in areas prone to seasonal, sporadic, or year-round water shortages; and if cooling water is required, use recirculating systems where feasible. When we take actions relating to water resources, we consider local circumstances such as environmental sensitivities and water availability. We also develop site-specific water resource management procedures that address the water usage requirements at our facilities and operations, as well as controls and procedures to manage related impacts. A resource management procedure for water generally identifies the applicable sources of water supply and the principal uses of water and includes the following  • risk assessment of the suitability, quality, sustainability, and reliability of the water supply to Schlumberger and to other relevant stakeholders • assessment of opportunities to improve water use efficiency  • assessment of the requirements for process and potable water over the lifetime of the operation or project  • details of applicable permits and licenses that are required to be obtained prior to sourcing water supplies  • planned inspection and maintenance programs for water storage and supply infrastructure. The closed-loop water recycling system at our largest facility in Guyana helps to conserve water while reducing disposal to sewers. Wastewater Plant Project Villahermosa to Recycle Water 270,000 25% liters of water processed in 2021 of this water recycled in 2021 1.6ML /year water saved -7% consumption / year Reduce Waste Generation -12.5% /year 188 metric tons CO2 saved -2.4% footprint reduction Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE In Kuwait, our team is reusing and recycling waste material by transforming it into garden products so the local community can grow its own fruits and vegetables. The Schlumberger team is also planting trees and flowers in community gardens. Protecting Natural Resourcescontinued Controlling our Discharges We have procedures in place designed to minimize, respond  to, and control the environmental impact of uncontained spills  at company worksites and at some third-party-controlled worksites. These procedures are risk based and rely on accurately assessing the activities that have potential spill risk.  A specific protocol is then developed to appropriately address potential spill scenarios. We have an oil spill response plan in place that covers 100% of our operations. Chemical Management Schlumberger has a chemical management process in place to manage the risks associated with chemicals used in our activities, products, and services, to protect Schlumberger employees, customers, contractors, suppliers, and property, as well as the environment. Our chemical management process also serves to promote compliance with regulatory and contractual requirements. We have a formal chemical management process as part of our global Chemical Standard, covering the life cycle of a chemical from product development, sourcing, procurement, manufacturing, and sale, to use and safe handling, transportation, and storage, to the end of the life cycle at disposal. The objective of the standard is to eliminate or mitigate the impact of chemical-related incidents—including impacts to biodiversity—by assessing and controlling the risks related to the different phases of the life cycle of chemicals  sold as products, used in the delivery of services, or processed by Schlumberger. Schlumberger is committed to reducing risks associated with hazardous chemicals through waste minimization and waste elimination programs. We apply a risk-based approach including a risk assessment process prior to introducing new chemicals and compounds to our operations to maintain compliance with our strict safety standards. All engineered and Schlumberger trade name chemicals go through our Lifecycle Management System, which includes an HSE and regulatory assessment. At the beginning of the life cycle of a product, we evaluate its chemistry to identify appropriate methods of mitigating chemical-related risks. Our dedicated chemical regulatory team works in close coordination with our research and development team to identify and reduce HSE and regulatory risks early. Our product development and sustaining teams focus on identifying chemical-related opportunities and developing and using more environmentally sustainable chemicals. When purchasing and designing chemicals, Schlumberger considers the chemical’s life cycle up to and including disposal of the chemical. We have long been committed to transparency in our chemical disclosure. We also require our suppliers to provide us with full disclosure regarding any chemicals that we purchase from them before we can include such chemicals in our portfolio. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Protecting Natural Resourcescontinued For Schlumberger, managing environmental impacts such as air emissions, discharge prevention, and leading conservation practices around the world is crucial. Managing Environmental Impacts Schlumberger’s QHSE Policy Statement, which is signed  by our CEO, requires from all employees and contractors  an active commitment to, and accountability for, quality,  health, safety, and the environment (QHSE). Our QHSE commitments include minimizing our impact on the environment through pollution prevention, reduction of natural resource consumption, emission minimization, recycling, and waste reduction. Line management has a leadership  role in the communication and implementation of and maintaining compliance with QHSE policies and standards. The management and mitigation of the environmental impact of our operations is the direct responsibility of  our line management. Our environmental management system and standard are the responsibility of our Vice President of HSE, supported by our Global Environmental Manager. Our global sustainability strategy—including environmental sustainability programs and initiatives to  improve aspects of biodiversity—is the responsibility of  our Vice President of Sustainability, supported by our  Director of Environmental Sustainability. Schlumberger uses a flexible, risk-based approach to manage and mitigate the environmental aspects and impacts of our activities, products, and services. This includes our environmental impact on nature and biodiversity, as well as operational emissions. Our commitment to environmental protection requires that a minimum standard of environmental performance is established at each of the company’s facilities in conjunction with local regulatory requirements. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE At our Houston technology center, drilling bits that have reached their end of life are recycled. Most bits are made of tungsten-carbide matrix material that can be pulverized, decontaminated, and resintered to make new bits. Up to 30% of the consumed matrix powder can come from recycled materials, and this has enabled us to reclaim between  150 and 300 tons of scrap bits per year. Enabling Circularity Our Technology Lifecycle Management (TLM) function oversees the lifecycle of Schlumberger assets from manufacture to retirement, to optimize our technology’s reliability, sustainability, and performance. Schlumberger has many assets ranging from land vehicles to downhole mechanical and electrical tools to meet our clients’ operational needs. The TLM function unites the Sustaining Engineering and Maintenance organizations to focus on more reliable and efficient maintenance of our assets throughout our global maintenance network. A key capability that comes from the TLM function is the return on experience provided by our technicians and engineers on the condition of our assets while they are maintained. Through this we continually seek to extend performance, life, and circularity. Some examples of how the TLM function relates to the circular economy are measures to maintain and prolong, reuse and redistribute, refurbish and remanufacture, and recycle. Maintain and Prolong Our TLM function focuses on moving assets through the maintenance process efficiently while continuing to service them to full operational readiness. To trigger these maintenance events, TLM is moving from traditional time-based maintenance, which can result in excessive transportation and servicing of assets, to condition-based maintenance, which optimizes the maintenance schedule based on the operational environment and measurable criteria. This capability is being further enhanced through new digital capabilities with intelligent health analyzers that advise on tool health and maintenance needs. Through optimizing maintenance programs, we can reduce the number of assets required along with resources consumed to maintain them. In addition to optimizing the maintenance events of our assets, the TLM function has a framework and structure to maximize the life of our assets. Our maintenance and operations personnel work collaboratively with the technology, sustaining, and engineering teams to identify asset and component life limiters and continually implement maintenance program and design changes to extend their lifetime use. Reuse and Redistribute To meet our clients’ needs across differing requirements, we aim to design our technologies in a modular manner. This enables assets to be reconfigured as required and avoids the manufacture of additional variants. This asset modularity is then combined with a strong focus on asset efficiency to maximize the global availability and redistribution of our fleet to avoid additional manufacture and distribution costs. Refurbish and Remanufacture Schlumberger continually optimizes our maintenance programs to minimize wasteful servicing of assets. However, due to the nature of the demands on our technology, when assets are disassembled to component level, some parts will be required to be replaced. To further reduce the waste from this maintenance program, the TLM function has a network of trained repair resources who work with sustaining engineering and third-party experts to repair and recover components that would have historically been disposed of, returning them to as-new condition. Recycle When it is no longer possible to maintain, reuse, or remanufacture our assets or products, Schlumberger works with its suppliers to identify economically viable recycling opportunities. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Safety 2021 1.072019  30% Improvement  TRIF (Total Recordable Injury Frequency) per 1 million work-hours, as per International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP)  Final audited TRIF rate for 2021 reflects a 0.01 increase to correct the 2021 data published in Schlumberger’s Annual Report.  Health, Safety, and Environment Schlumberger has a long-standing HSE commitment to the highest standards for the health, safety, and wellbeing of our employees and contractors, as well as to the protection of the environment in the communities in which we live and work. Keeping People Safe A significant proportion of injuries in our industry involve personnel with less than one year of service within a company. As a result, all new Schlumberger employees, as well as applicable contractors, are included in our New Employee Safety Training (NEST) program, which provides critical safety training to manage new employees’ increased HSE risks. We also have specific NEST trainings for contracted employees.  FACILITATED HSE CLASSES (Excluding online training) # Students NEST (New Employee Safety Training) 4,811 Facilitator Level 2 217 27 HSE Level 2 3,112 254 HSE Level 3 519 52 HSE-Event Investigation Level 2 16 3 HSE-Auditing Level 2 49 6 First Aid Level 2 301 43 CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation) 120 14 Driving Training 1,617 182 Overhead Crane Operator 56 12 Onshore Mobile Crane Supervisor Level 2 357 60 Forklift Operations Level 2 134 18 Banksman Slingers 80 14 In 2021, we assigned our first Global Health and Wellbeing Manager, recognizing the strategic need to support employees to live their best lives. The Live Well program was launched with the vision for Schlumberger employees to be the healthiest and happiest people in our industry, and our mission is to provide a positive environment for people to flourish and for business to thrive. # Classes 425 4.5In 2021, we recorded more than million HSE training hours, averaging approximately 41.5 HSE training hours per person. More than 1,100 NEST classes, both virtual and  in person, were held at Schlumberger in 2021. 1 Reflects only company-wide objectives and achievement levels. Geographic- and business line-specific objectives and achievement levels are not reflected. 2 Internal TRIF and AARm metrics reflect all Schlumberger-involved incidents or accidents, as applicable, including incidents that are not required to be recorded by IOGP or OSHA (such as incidents occurring during off-duty hours). As a result, these internal performance metrics do not match our industry-recognized TRIF and AARm figures in the performance data table. 3 “Applicable contractors” refers to the approximately 28,000 whose performance was included in our global QHSE business system as of December 31, 2021. These contractors are to some degree under Schlumberger’s operational control, and so are included in our safety metrics in accordance with IOGP best practices relating to contractor management (Mode 1 and Mode 2 contractors, as defined in IOGP Report 423). 