EnvironmentSchlumberger’s technologies strive to lower environmental impact and provide value to customers and other stakeholders by reliably and efficiently optimizing production and recovery of nonrenewable resources.Environmental Performance Schlumberger is committed to responsible stewardship of the world in which we live.We strive to meet international environmental standards and regulations and to exceed customer expectations by managing risk, preventing pollution, minimizing waste and natural resource consumption, and lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We help ensure success by setting clear objectives,
measuring the results, and continuously improving the quality of our processes, services, and products.The information that follows describes the actions we are taking to minimize risk and reduce emissions and waste, and the technologies that are
helping our customers reduce their environmental footprint.Climate ChangeAs a global technology leader, we believe that our ability to address climate change
issues with innovative new technologies and increased operational performance is
integral to the energy industry’s global initiative to reduce carbon footprint.
Technology Advantage
Schlumberger technologies are directly and indirectly helping customers improve their operational efficiency, reduce emissions, decrease water usage, apply safer chemistry, and increase oil and gas production using fewer resources. Our strategy includes the development of advanced technologies that help our customers drill faster, reduce their surface and subsurface footprint, and improve reservoir recovery and production, all of which contribute to lowering resource requirements and creating fewer emissions per hydrocarbon unit produced. Managing Environmental RiskHealth, safety, and respect for the environment are primary concerns within
Schlumberger. The Schlumberger HSE Management System defines the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide with regard to health, safety, and the environment, and it applies to all employees, customers, contractors, and third parties associated with our business. In 2014, the Company implemented a risk-based approach to environmental management designed to meet the requirements of international environmental management stan.dards. This approach to managing the Company’s environmental aspects, addresses the control and mitigation measures required for the activities that the Company conducts. It also addresses the services and products that the Company provides at customer and other third-party locations.Chemistry TransparencyTo bring greater transparency to the hydraulic fracturing process, Schlumberger pio.neered a disclosure system that accurately portrays the chemistries used at the wellsite while minimizing disclosure of trade secrets. Known as the “systems approach,” this method has enabled us to achieve an industry-leading transparency rate. Our systems approach has been adopted for use by FracFocus, a national registry created to provide public access to reported chemicals used for hydraulic fracturing in the United States.Improving Our PerformanceSchlumberger has been annually reporting to the CDP since 2005, and during that time we have substantially improved our ability to manage greenhouse gas emissions through new technologies, better data collection, and a growing capability to accurately measure emissions. Thanks to the efforts of numerous contributors, from employees to suppliers, Schlumberger placed 7th out of 18 companies in the Energy sector in 2014, with a disclosure score of 84—up from 83 the previous year. CDP rates companies on two measures: disclosure and performance.Air EmissionsSchlumberger activities, products, and services are designed, procured, and used with a goal of efficiently managing resource consumption across the life cycle. Through increased internal resource efficiency, we are finding new ways to reduce emissions.In 2014, increased North American Well Services emissions were due to increased activity as business conditions improved. These, however, were largely offset by
decreased WesternGeco emissions as marine seismic activity slowed and benefits were realized from its Marine Energy Management Plan.The rigor now present in emissions reporting and auditing has led to the inclusion of the amount of emissions being stated as a function of total revenue as well as per employee per year. Schlumberger Global Air Emissions DataCO2e Per Billion $ Revenue Per YearCO2e Emitted Per YearMillion tonnesCO2e Emitted Per YearCO2e Per Employee Per YearNote: Scope 1 emissions are direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources Schlumberger owns or controls. Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of purchased electricity, heating and cooling, or steam.Note: In 2014, increased North American Well Services emissions were due to increased activity as business conditions improved.Streamlined Supply Chain Schlumberger spends several billion dollars annually with more than 80,000 third-party suppliers. With a global reach spanning all continents and geographic regions, ours is the largest supply chain in the oil and gas services industry. We are redefining our
supply chain function by developing a global strategy for sourcing and supply chain.One element of that plan is narrowing our focus to suppliers who are closer to field oper.ations in all corners of the world. By orchestrating our supplies to meet global demands and coordinating our supply chain logistics, we intend not only to reduce transportation-related greenhouse gases but also to encourage local engagements, as well as regional industrial development.Lowering Fuel Consumption and EmissionsIn 2014, WesternGeco, whose marine vessels were responsible for approximately 22% of total Schlumberger worldwide emissions, reduced the emissions from its fleet of oper.ated marine-seismic vessels and achieved its goal: lowest fuel consumption per square meter of towed spread. As part of its Marine Energy Management Plan, WesternGeco is building all new vessels using the latest energy-efficiency improvements. We replaced two retired vessels with next-generation Amazon-class vessels equipped with Tier II
engines. These now conform to the Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP) and to DNV Green Passport recommendations. The following efficiencies were gained
in 2014:..reduced emissions 3% to 4% per vessel..reduced fuel consumption by 8.5%..reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 23,000 tonnes.Reducing Vehicle Fleet EmissionsTo reduce fleet emissions, we have instituted several new measures. We established a systematic program for improving gear ratios in trucks and tractors; improving gear ratios lowers engine revolutions per minute and thus reduces fuel consumption. We installed idle shutdown timers on tractors used in fracturing operations to reduce fuel consumption and associated emissions at wellsites. We switched many of our hydraulic fracturing pumps to bi-fuel. Whenever possible, as we procure and produce new non.road engines, we are upgrading them to Tier 4 emissions compliance. Finally, we have taken a much more direct approach to lowering overall emissions for our current frac.turing pump fleet; we now analyze the performance characteristics of each fracturing pump engine and create tools that actively guide operations to the lowest fuel consump.tion. To date, these efforts have reduced fuel consumption by 3% to 5%, and we expect to see similar results as we incorporate these measures across the entire fleet. Water UseWater is an integral component of oil and gas development. Recognizing the need for a balanced approach to water use, Schlumberger leverages our extensive oilfield experience and technologies with teams of water and geoscience experts to help increase water efficiencies. Schlumberger Water Services (SWS) provides consulting services for the exploration, development, management, and environmental protection of water resources. SWS provides private- and public-sector clients around the world with cost-effective solutions to address their water supply and disposal challenges. Novel completion technologies such as the Broadband Precision* integrated completion service and the Broadband Sequence* fracturing service are helping our clients improve the effectiveness of stimulation treatments and optimize water usage in their operations. By increasing water efficiency, these innovative technologies are enabling our customers to operate in water-stressed and environmentally sensitive areas.Water is used in our engineering centers and field operations facilities for equipment manufacturing and cleaning, as well as for camp and catering purposes. Data for water consumption in approximately 70% of our facilities, not including North America, is presented in the graph below.Loss of ContainmentSpill prevention and response includes procedures to prevent, respond to, and control environmental impacts of uncontained spills at worksites that are controlled by the
Company, or at third-party-controlled work sites where the Company is required to provide this type of procedure.Water Use by YearOil and Chemical Spills by YearReported water consumption is limited to water used at our own facilities and does not include water used in the provision of services to customers in field operations or at wellsites and rigs.Increased activity throughout Schlumberger for much of 2014 contributed to increased oil and chemical spill volumes.Waste ManagementTo better manage waste materials, Schlumberger is constantly improving processes
and materials. We reuse materials when possible, recycle more for our own operations and for our customers, and use our novel technologies to find new recovery methods. We continue to seek opportunities to reduce both our direct consumption of resources and the wastes we generate. Waste management also includes procedures to control the minimization, recycling, and disposal of wastes associated with the Company’s activities or, separately, where waste management and treatment services are provided to a customer.Waste Generated by YearMore than 80% of the reported waste (above, by weight) comprises waste water discharges from equipment washing and manufacturing processes. About 2% of the waste is classified as hazardous.Energy EfficiencySchlumberger is working to improve energy efficiency through product development while also addressing the energy challenges facing our customers in the oil and gas industry. In the United Kingdom and Norway, we have been conducting energy audits of our facilities and implementing energy-reduction measures based on those audits. When sourcing energy, our supply chain organization evaluates logistics, local resource scarcity, and potential impacts on the environment, particularly in North America and for WesternGeco. When possible, we purchase energy-efficient equipment and procure electricity from a sustainable source. Energy Consumption by Type and YearTotal Electricity Consumption by YearIncreased activity throughout Schlumberger for much of 2014 contributed to increased energy consumption.BiodiversitySchlumberger has implemented a risk-based procedure that is part of our environmental standard for the management of ecosystem and biodiversity impacts. This procedure
includes addressing biodiversity protection, preventing the migration of invasive spe.cies, and minimizing the footprint of our exploration and production operations.Brush and Mulch Cutters Lessen Seismic ImpactVegetation often bears the brunt of seismic acquisition on land, but using brush cutters rather than bulldozers can alleviate this impact. Brush cutters leave roots undisturbed and foster a more rapid return of vegetation. They also can help protect fragile desert dunes, as well as Arctic permafrost. Similarly, mulch cutters reduce the environmen.tal impact of seismic operations. The mulch layer prevents rutting of the surface as the seismic vehicles pass, which in turn helps prevent erosion and alteration of local drainage patterns. The mulch layer left behind effectively protects the rootstock and nourishes the topsoil, helping promote rapid regeneration of vegetation during the next season’s growth.Technology AdvantageSchlumberger technologies bring value by helping our customers optimize oil and gas production, use fewer resources, improve efficiencies, reduce emissions, and minimize water use. Our technologies and processes also address sustainability issues by meeting or exceeding challenging international regulatory requirements and by addressing the growing expectations of society for cleaner services and products.Our customers are increasingly focused on reducing their own environmental impact. The examples that follow show how we are helping them achieve this objective with optimized drilling techniques and completion strategies, technologically advanced safety equipment, innovative chemistries with reduced health and environmental risks, and more efficient and accurate monitoring and control systems to ensure well integrity.In 2014, Schlumberger invested $1.2 billion in the research and development of technolo.gies. Our technologies and processes focus on sustainability issues to meet changing international regulatory requirements and address the growing expectations of society for cleaner services and products. Schlumberger’s customers are also increasingly focused on reducing their own environmental impact, and we are striving to help them achieve their objectives.Services and ProductsFrom exploration to abandonment, our comprehensive range of technologies, services, and products includes..extensive reservoir-characterization technologies and methodologies..advanced drilling-fluid systems and technologies..novel fracturing technologies ..innovative cementing technologies ..advanced monitoring and control systems..innovative chemistries.TechnologiesBelow are some of our many services and products that reduce environmental impact through cleaner chemistries, reduced emissions and water use, lower risk levels,
reduced transportation requirements, increased efficiency, higher production, and smaller footprint.Many of the terms found in this report are defined in the award-winning Schlumberger Oilfield Glossary. Launched in 1998, this collection of industry terms includes more than 4,600 entries for oilfield-related activities and technologies.Cleaner chemistryReduce emissionsMinimize riskIncrease efficiencyRecycle/reduceReduce transportationReduce waterReduce footprintIncrease well productivityQ-Marine Solid* streamer with a nonfluid fillENVIROUNIT† offshore mobile water treatment systemExtended reach drillingPARALAND† nonaqueous drilling fluid systemULTRADRIL† drilling fluid systemHiWAY* flow-channel fracturing techniqueOpenFRAC* fully disclosed hydraulic fracturing fluids Broadband Sequence* fracturing serviceBroadband Precision* integrated completion serviceInvizion Evaluation* well integrity serviceFUTUR* self-healing cement systemCemCRETE* concrete-based oilwell cementing technologyEverCRETE* CO2-resistant cement systemEverGreen* minimal environmental impact well effluent burnerENVIROUNIT Offshore Mobile Water Treatment SystemQ-Marine Solid StreamerThe Q-Marine Solid streamer is a surface marine cable used to collect data for 3D seis.mic acquisition vessels. These advanced streamers are designed with a special casing, or skin, that reduces drag and lowers the vessel’s fuel consumption. If the skin of the Q-Marine Solid streamer is damaged, most of the damage can be refurbished once for original use, extending the streamer’s life by an average of 3 years. The next time a skin needs refurbishing, it can usually be repurposed, which extends the material’s life another 8 to 10 years. Recycling of these plastic streamer components saves $130,000
a year and keeps at least 100 tonnes of useful materials from being wasted.The ENVIROUNIT offshore mobile water treatment system is a process that separates wash water from drilling fluids allowing recovery of the drilling fluid for reuse. The water recovered from the treatment process meets the discharge limits for offshore discharge and therefore reduces the emissions associated with shipment of the waste back to shore for treatment. Extended Reach DrillingPARALAND Nonaqueous Drilling Fluid SystemExtended reach drilling (ERD) refers to the drilling of directional wells in which a well’s horizontal reach is at least twice its vertical depth. ERD is a challenging strategy for
directional drilling and well construction that requires specialized planning, but in coastal regions it enables operators to minimize the number of offshore platforms and instead use land-based drilling. Other environmental benefits include dramatically
improved reservoir drainage (which also lowers costs) and a minimized surface footprint at the wellsite. In addition, operators can locate their wellsites farther away from local communities and from environmentally sensitive areas, with less disruption to both.PARALAND nonaqueous drilling fluid system is designed to allow cuttings to be used as a soil or soil amendment. The base fluid was designed to biodegrade rapidly and features low terrestrial toxicity. The other drilling fluid components are designed to
minimize conductivity and enhance plant growth. The drilling fluid has consistently exceeded expectations, with high penetration rates, low dilution rates, and high
contamination tolerance. The design of the system targets beneficial reuse of cuttings and offers an attractive alternative to traditional treatment and disposal cuttings
management practices.   HiWAY Flow-Channel Fracturing TechniqueULTRADRIL Drilling Fluid SystemThe HiWAY technique significantly increases fracture conductivity while reducing
water and proppant consumption. This means simpler logistics and a smaller
operational footprint. Since its introduction in 2010, the HiWAY flow-channel fracturing technique has conserved more than 1.2 billion pounds of proppant, eliminating more than 30,000 truck loads to and from the wellsite. In addition, the HiWAY technique has saved about 350 million gallons of water—equivalent to the capacity of more than
1,800 Olympic-sized swimming pools, or 70,000 truck loads. The total of 100,000 saved truck loads has helped our customers prevent more than 5,500 tonnes of CO2 emissions.The ULTRADRIL drilling fluid system is a high-performance water-based drilling fluid sys.tem with an inhibitive capability closely matching that of nonaqueous based drilling fluid. A thin polymer coating encapsulates cuttings, minimizing shale dispersion, and reduces the need for fluid dilution and disposal. Environmental performance is better because the inhibitive chemistry results in reduced waste volumes. The drilling fluid can be recycled or discharged in compliance with local rules in many areas, making it an economical alternative to nonaqueous based systems, particularly in deepwater and ultradeepwater drilling projects.OpenFRAC Fully Disclosed Hydraulic Fracturing FluidsBroadBand Sequence Fracturing ServiceOpenFRAC fracturing fluids are composed of benign environmentally acceptable additive components that are fully disclosed to operators at a disclosure level similar to that used in the food industry. All are water-base fluids that function in a wide range of mix-water compositions, and because they reduce drag in slickwater fracturing, they improve
efficiency and reduce costs. Numerous formulation options enable their use in multiple hydraulic fracturing applications, including shale and tight gas sands. All OpenFrac fluids are suitable for recycling and reuse.OpenFrac fully disclosed formulations are designed with additives that do not use any EPA-classified pollutants or national primary drinking water contaminants. More than 90% of the chemicals used in our fracturing operations meet the OpenFrac criteria.The BroadBand Sequence fracturing service enables each zone to be sequentially iso.lated, fractured, and fully stimulated, resulting in greater reservoir volume and contact. The increased production and recovery have shifted the 40% of wells that are typically uneconomical toward 100% that are economical. For example, in North America, opera.tors reduced total completion time in the Eagle Ford Shale by 46%, decreased stimula.tion time in the Burgos Basin by 65%, and increased the productivity index in a Bakken formation well by 600%. Most wells using the Broadband Sequence service require fewer trucks and less equipment on site, leading to reduced fuel consumption overall and fewer emissions per well.BroadBand Precision Integrated Completion ServiceInvizion Evaluation Well Integrity ServiceThe BroadBand Precision integrated completion service enables maximum control of fracture placement, sizing, and conductivity. Every promising perforation cluster in each interval is propped open using an engineered composite fluid that promotes the formation of high-conductivity flow channels across all fractures to their total depth and height. In the Bone Spring Formation in New Mexico, the service enhanced well productivity for one customer by 33% while also decreasing water and proppant usage, lowering the amount of equipment required at the wellsite, and reducing the operational footprint on the surface.The Invizion Evaluation well integrity service provides rapid top-of-cement measure.ments and correlates logs, surface measurements, and cement placement data for
design and evaluation of cement quality. This unique analysis can help verify the integ.rity of the well from formation to pipe, providing realistic assurance of zonal isolation for the protection of the water table. Because cement placement can be confirmed and zonal isolation issues identified, with evaluation of potential short- or long-term impacts, the process can optimize production and reduce the energy footprint of drilling and remedial operations over the life of the well.CemCRETE Concrete-Based Oilwell Cementing Technology FUTUR Self-Healing Cement SystemThe FUTUR self-healing cement system works after the cement has already set to prevent leaks if they occur when the cement sheath becomes damaged. The FUTUR sys.tem closes flow paths within hours, repairing cracks and restoring the cement sheath without the need for remedial cementing. This durable cement sheath prevents gas migration to the surface, surface casing vent flows, and sustained casing pressure. The self-healing continues even after the well’s operational life ends, enhancing long-term zonal isolation and well integrity.CemCRETE concrete-based oilwell cementing technology increases the solids content of cement slurry through particle-size distribution technology. Smaller particles fill the voids between larger particles, requiring less water. The resulting cement slurry has improved flow and set properties, including permeability, strength, and corrosion resis.tance. A lower water-to-cement ratio during mixing and pumping improves long-term performance. It reduces waiting-on-cement time because the cement system isolates the formation and develops compressive strength faster than conventional cement sys.tems. Successful cementing reduces the risk of well failures and underground leaks.EverGreen Minimal Environmental Impact Well Effluent BurnerEverCRETE CO2-Resistant Cement System The EverGreen well effluent burner is an oil burner for well testing and cleanup. It burns liquid hydrocarbons produced during testing but is fallout free and smokeless. The burner has an automatic shutoff valve that prevents oil spillage. It operates effectively in water cuts up to 25%, making it ideal for cleanup operations. It eliminates liquid fallout, visible smoke emissions, and oil dumping at the end of a burn sequence, and thus is particularly suited for operations in environmentally sensitive areas. The EverCRETE CO2-resistant cement system is a zonal isolation technology for under.ground storage of CO2, which can become highly corrosive to oilfields. The cement is resistant to CO2 attack and reduces the CO2-induced degradation of the cement sheath that can lead to emission leaks. It can be used with standard cementing operations for zonal isolation of new CO2 injection wells, for plug and abandonment of existing wells drilled through the storage zone, for carbon capture and storage, and CO2-enhanced oil recovery projects.Employee Engagement: Workplace SolutionsDriven by our stringent internal standards, our employees are applying their world-class technical abilities to reduce our resource consumption, build green facilities, and improve our workplace environment.In 2010, Research and Engineering (R&E) launched a Lean and Green program to actively target environmental wastes in the form of energy, water, materials, emissions, and other solid and liquid wastes. The success of the program has depended on collaboration among teams, particularly Engineering, Manufacturing, Sustaining, Supply Chain, HSE, Facilities, and Finance.Facilities-related projects in the Lean and Green program include the installation of energy-efficient lighting, sensors and timers for heating and lighting control, air-handling systems, and closed-loop water systems.The return on investment from these projects provided both financial and environmental advantages that are potentially repeatable.The program brings proactive environmental awareness to the Schlumberger research and engineering organization that can be expanded to other parts of the Company.Lean and Green Program Average Annual Savings..2,378 megawatts in electricity..19,704 kiloliters of water..521 tonnes of waste2014 Lean and Green Highlights In 2014, the Schlumberger Lean and Green program included 40 projects that saved more than 1.09 million kilowatt hours of electricity, 15,000 kiloliters of water, 25,000 liters of hydrocarbon fuel, 2.8 tonnes of materials, and 210 tonnes of waste. With project costs amounting to $340,000, the 2014 Lean and Green program saved over $2.2 million—more than double the annual financial savings achieved in previous years.Houston Formation Evaluation Center, Houston, TexasThe Center’s Source Recycling Project cost less than $6,000 to implement but generated net savings of $1.6 million.Schlumberger Riboud Well Integrity Center, Clamart, France
One project reduced water use in the Center by 95%. The closed-loop water treatment system cost less than $38,000 to install and saved $5,000 and 8,500 kiloliters of water.Singapore Integration Center, Singapore
A new air conditioning and fresh air supply system required $95,000 of investment, but saved 394,000 kilowatt hours of electricity and resulted in project savings of $148,000.Conveyance and Surface Equipment Center, Abbeville, France
A project to make design changes to a packer resulted in the elimination of the use of chlorinated solvent in manufacturing, without loss of product quality or performance.Pressure Pumping and Chemistry Center, Sugar Land, Texas
Implementing a variable-pitch fan on an engine cooling system saved 25,000 liters of diesel fuel and had a financial savings of $47,000.Lawrence Technology Center, Lawrence, Kansas
After a process evaluation, removal of unnecessary heating tubes and ovens saved 500,000 kilowatt hours of electricity and $45,000.Completions Product Center, Houston, Texas
A project to recondition a coating cell required a full redesign of the working area,
resulted in improvements in working conditions, automation, process flow, controlled
air emissions, water use (3.3 million liters saved), and pit cleaning (26,819 liters of
wastewater eliminated).LEED-Certified BuildingsOur Shared Services Organization assembled a professional facility-management team to optimize our existing facilities’ footprints and coordinate their safe, secure, and
environmentally compliant operations. Several buildings were recognized with Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) awards. LEED certification, the recognized standard for measuring building sustainability, is administered by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), a nonprofit coalition of building industry leaders. The rating system promotes design and construction practices that reduce the negative environmental impact of buildings and improve occupant health and well-being.
USGBC and its community are changing the way buildings and communities are designed, built, and operated. Internationally, LEED is a globally recognized symbol of excellence in green buildings. The following are examples of Schlumberger’s LEED
program successes.MidlandThe design of the M-I SWACO Campus in Midland, Texas, was built to LEED Silver standards. Current LEED projects at the campus include the promotion of bicycle and pedestrian traffic, use of sustainable building materials, reduction of waste, recycling, and the use of high-efficiency water systems and LED lighting.SelangorThe Asia Center of Reliability and Efficiency in Selangor, Malaysia, is a LEED-certified building, with energy savings of more than 30%. The facility is also equipped with
water-efficient fittings. Additionally, in 2015, the center is expected to save up to 46% in water usage.Labuan
Schlumberger employees in Labuan, Malaysia, contributed many green ideas for a new base, ultimately achieving a Silver rating for the first LEED-certified building in Labuan. The following are highlights of the project...All eligible equipment is ENERGY STAR rated...All lamps are low in mercury content...95% of construction waste is being diverted from a landfill...75% reduction in annual potable water was achieved...46% of all construction material has high recyclable content...30% of air into the office building comes from outside...Annual energy savings are 29%.Employee-Driven InitiativesNiskuIn a world of disposable items, a team of Artificial Lift employees in Nisku, Alberta, deter.mined that their shop’s scrap metal might have a higher value than previously thought. This facility uses a variety of metals in many applications. Over the years, the more valuable scrap metals have been separated from the waste stream. For example, shafts made of Monel® and Inconel® are separated for scrap value. As technologies have changed, the shop has captured more of the valuable scrap, such as tungsten carbide. HoumaThe calibration lab supervisor and engineering team in the Schlumberger Subsea Test Facility in Houma, Louisiana, created a substantial cost savings through equipment
design. Their modification to wiring harnesses on hydraulic power units and master control equipment reduced costly man-hours and saved $300,000.