Environment Schlumberger technologies enhance oilfield exploration, reservoir characterization, well construction and completion, and field production. Many of our technologies and processes enable our customers to lower their environmental impacts while optimizing the production and recovery of nonrenewable resources. In addition to helping our customers achieve their own environmental objectives, our internal focus on reducing our global footprint is integral to our strategy to address climate change. In this Section Environmental Performance  14  134,000  Technology Advantage  22  Cubic meters of water recycled.  Stewardship in Action: Environment   30  182,000  Tons of waste recycled.  6.7% Reduction in annual waste generated. Learn more about the Schlumberger commitment to the environment: www.slb.com/globalstewardship/environment Environmental Performance Schlumberger is committed to responsible environmental stewardship. We strive to meet international environmental standards and regulations and to exceed customer expectations by managing risk, reducing pollution, waste and natural resource consumption, and lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to explore ways to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations and the environmental impacts of our customers. Our 2018 environmental performance in several priority areas is set out below. Climate Change We align with and support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of providing access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all (SDG 7) and taking urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts (SDG 13). We also support the efforts of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for advancing environmental and social issues. IPIECA helps the oil and gas industry be part of the climate change solution by providing members with guidance on greenhouse gas (GHG) reporting and information on best practices regarding energy efficiency and GHG management, and by convening expert workshops to explore key climate-related issues. We continue to advance our data collection and risk analysis efforts to generate annual improvements in the measurement and management of our carbon footprint and reduce our climate-related risk. In 2018, Schlumberger began working with a climate consulting firm to facilitate a climate assessment pilot program that would proactively address evolving climate-related disclosure requirements, such as the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). To ensure the program was relevant to our global operations, we selected one region that is representative of our broad operational activities and features a dynamic political and social landscape regarding climate issues. After a detailed evaluation of our operations in the region, our top climate-related risks and opportunities were identified, and scenario-based analyses were conducted to evaluate potential outcomes. This included both acute and chronic physical climate risks as well as potential risks and opportunities associated with the energy transition. Additionally, the program is aiding the Company’s efforts to identify gaps in internal mechanisms for collecting data and identifying risks and opportunities. When complete, this exercise will enable us to determine the best way to conduct a global climate-related risk and opportunity analysis and how to incorporate those results into our internal strategy. Externally, our position as a global technology leader gives us an unparalleled ability to address climate change with technologies that help our customers increase their operational performance while reducing or avoiding emissions, lowering water usage, and improving chemistry applications. Our corporate strategy is to continue developing a system-level view to fully optimize the finding, development, and production of new and existing oil and gas resources. Increasing the volume and quality of data collected as well as using innovative technologies to lower environmental impacts enables the exploration and production industry to reduce subsurface risk and optimize production while reducing resource consumption and lowering GHG emissions. Biodiversity To minimize, mitigate, and manage significant ecosystem or biodiversity impacts, Schlumberger has developed a risk-based procedure for the creation of ecosystem and biodiversity management plans. These plans protect sensitive wildlife areas, flora and fauna, ecosystems, and conservation areas. They also prevent the introduction of invasive species and establish conditions to facilitate the rehabilitation or restoration of land areas impacted by Schlumberger operations and project activities. The plans detail We continue to advance our data collection and risk analysis efforts to generate annual improvements in the measurement and management of our carbon footprint and reduce our climate-related risk. any local regulations requiring reporting on ecosystem and biodiversity management activities, which are periodically reviewed to ensure applicability. Schlumberger designs and manages its operations to minimize the impact on ecosystems and biodiversity across the life cycle of each facility, activity, product or service. Medium- to high-level risk controls are applied when Schlumberger operations are in environmentally sensitive areas, have the potential for significant wildlife loss, could possibly introduce invasive species, or could impact a large body of land or water. As far as reasonably practical, Schlumberger uses existing infrastructure to avoid or reduce the need for land clearance for construction. Where practical, new Schlumberger infrastructure is not placed in environmentally sensitive areas. The Company strives to minimize environmental disturbance, restrict the movement of machinery and equipment during work activities, plan land restoration, and schedule activities that may cause disruption and disturbance to wildlife to avoid sensitive periods of the year. Managing Environmental Risk Schlumberger uses a flexible, risk-based approach to manage and mitigate the environmental aspects and impacts of our activities, products, and services. The diverse nature of these environmental aspects and impacts requires a flexible approach. Our commitment to environmental protection, as described in our HSE risk policy and the Schlumberger Blue Print in Action–Our Code of Conduct, requires that a minimum standard of environmental performance is established at each of the Company’s facilities regardless of local regulatory requirements. Our environmental risk management program uses a combination of 14 fundamental controls that are implemented at Company locations in environmentally sensitive areas, and 12 risk-based controls that are implemented to manage the environmental aspects and impacts of a specific business activity. The requirements for risk-based controls are described in business-specific environmental risk assessments for each of our geographical regions and business segments. Each of our worksites uses this risk assessment to create a documented, site-specific environmental program that describes which controls are applicable to the site and how those controls are implemented. Implementation of the environmental management program is supported by the management systems and processes described in our corporate standards and several web-based IT systems designed to collect and manage environmental performance data, regulatory compliance documentation, and procedural documents. Our environmental management program includes several processes that provide assurance of internal conformance to our requirements and of external compliance to applicable regulatory requirements. These assurance processes are documented and subject to periodic internal review. The Schlumberger environmental risk management program has been developed to align with the requirements of our external stakeholders, including our customers and regulatory agencies in the countries where we operate. To support those stakeholders, we have developed our program to include the requirements of two recognized independent environmental management standards: the International Standards Organization ISO14001:2015 and the environmental components of the International Finance Corporation (World Bank Group) Environmental and Social Performance Standards. Furthermore, a third-party organization has completed a review of our program’s alignment to those two standards. Evaluating Potential Impacts In 2012, we began development of the Schlumberger Stewardship Tool, a software platform that facilitates the incorporation of sustainability aspects into our engineering and operational practices by modeling environmental metrics related to well stimulation, such as emissions, air quality, water use, noise, and chemical exposure. The Stewardship Tool was integral to developing environmentally focused technologies such as the BroadBand Sequence* fracturing service and StimCommander* automated stimulation delivery platform. After using the Stewardship Tool internally for five years, we recognized the evolving needs of our customers to engage a wide variety of stakeholders. Therefore, we began working closely with industry partners to evaluate the potential release of the Stewardship Tool to enhance planning and communication across the industry, independent of whether Schlumberger is providing the services. In 2018, we introduced new modules for the modeling of key upstream oil and gas activities, such as temporary pad construction and well drilling, to expand the coverage of the Stewardship Tool beyond well stimulation. Additionally, we continued to identify functionality improvements and began the development of a production module, which will model the largest portion of a well’s life. The tool has been presented to more than 30 globally diverse customers interested in using the software for a variety of applications, from comparing wellsite technologies to communicating with regulators and stakeholders. Internally, we continue to use the tool in the product development process, helping to introduce the next generation of environmentally focused technologies. Carbon Services Schlumberger has been involved in more than 50 carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS) projects around the world since 2005. We help our customers avoid emissions through the provision of services and technologies for permanent geological CO2 storage. In 2005, we formed a carbon services group to develop technology in response to growing awareness about the impact of CO2 emissions. Schlumberger focuses on the challenges of storing CO2 captured from industrial sources underground to help mitigate climate change and protect the environment. We continue our participation in many CCUS projects, such as the Illinois Industrial Carbon Capture and Sequestration Project, a large-scale demonstration project designed to store 1 million tonnes of CO2 annually approximately 7,000 feet underground in the Mount Simon Sandstone. We also offer technologies for monitoring and verifying storage associated with enhanced oil recovery (EOR). For example, we are providing CO2 monitoring services at the Farnsworth Field in Texas, where more than 1 million tonnes of CO2 from an ethanol plant in Kansas has been permanently stored underground through ongoing EOR operations. In 2018, Schlumberger actively participated in 12 CCUS projects. Operational Integrity Operational integrity at Schlumberger is about consistently striving to deliver safe, efficient, and reliable products and services for our customers. Schlumberger is committed to achieving a tenfold improvement in operational reliability between 2011 and 2020. In addition, our multiyear transformation program benefited field operations through increased efficiency, improved reliability, and reduced nonproductive time (NPT).  NPT is the time it takes to return to the same working position on a job after a service quality incident or equipment failure. In 2018, we improved our NPT rate by 54.6% when compared with our baseline year of 2011, which is a significant achievement given industry conditions. Working more efficiently, doing things right the first time, and decreasing nonproductive time helps our customers reduce emissions. Managing Facilities The Schlumberger Global Facilities Management and Maintenance Standard defines our responsibilities associated with managing facility activities. The goal is to minimize utility use and the impact of our activities on the environment. The standard is designed to ensure that facility activities are compliant with Schlumberger policies as well as relevant local environmental legislation and directives. Waste generated by any facility task must be measured and disposed of in a responsible manner with a licensed waste broker, and materials (particularly chemicals) that reduce or control pollution must be handled and stored responsibly. The standard requires energy-saving products and practices to be used in all aspects of facilities management activities and that a record is kept of energy use. In addition, employees and contractors who carry out facility activities must receive appropriate training, particularly when their work may have an impact on the environment. In 2018, Schlumberger occupied 753 sites and facilities worldwide that involve environmentally significant activities, and 113 of these were certified to the ISO14001 standard. Chemical Transparency In 2010, Schlumberger developed a chemical disclosure process for hydraulic fracturing called the “systems approach.” Five years later, the process was adopted by FracFocus, a US and Canadian registry for public disclosure of fracturing chemistry, with the goal of improving industry-wide transparency rates. After nine years and over 25,000 disclosures by Schlumberger, our industry-leading rate of disclosure for chemical constituents continues to be nearly 100%. Third-Party Audit For 2018, we engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to audit our methodology for quantifying direct and indirect GHG emissions linked to our operations around the world. As a part of this process, PwC auditors reviewed our processes and procedures and verified selected environmental and health and safety data. Environmental data audited for 2018 includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, waste production, water consumption, spill, and energy consumption. Health and safety data audited for 2018 includes the number of fatalities, employee and contractor lost-time injuries and illnesses, and the associated workhours to determine frequencies and rates. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are, in all material respects, fairly presented and in accordance with Schlumberger procedural guidelines. Our commitment to environmental protection, as described in our HSE risk policy and the Schlumberger Blue Print in Action–Our Code of Conduct, requires that a minimum standard of environmental performance is established at each of the Company’s facilities regardless of local regulatory requirements.  We continue working to improve our internal processes for gathering and reporting greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, electricity generation, waste, and loss of containment. Performance Data In 2018, our greenhouse gas emissions, water use, and electricity use increased as the industry continued to rebalance and activity increased, especially in North America. We continue working to improve our internal processes for gathering and reporting greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, electricity generation, waste, and loss of containment. Each year we increase the number of sources from which we track data. Air Emissions Schlumberger wellsite activities increased in 2018, leading to a 4.8% increase in our overall Scope 1 emissions to 1.42 million tonnes from 1.36 million tonnes in 2017. Our Scope 1 increase was mainly due to the continued upturn in pressure pumping in North America. Scope 2 emissions also increased to 0.64 million tonnes in 2018 from 0.56 million tonnes in 2017 due to the purchase of additional mining facilities and increased manufacturing activity. Combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions increased by 7.6% to 2.06 million tonnes in 2018 from 1.92 million tonnes in 2017. Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data covers 100% of our business operations. Loss of Containment We have procedures in place reasonably designed to minimize, respond to, and control the environmental impact of uncontained spills at Company worksites and at some third-party controlled worksites. Our data for industry-recognized number of incidents greater than one barrel and hydrocarbon bulk fluid spills covers 100% of our business operations. In 2018, our industry-recognized number of incidents decreased to 44 in 2018 from 45 in 2017. However, our volume of hydrocarbons bulk fluid spills increased to 522 barrels in 2018 from 436 barrels in 2017. Water Use Water use data includes water used for domestic purposes, equipment cooling, equipment washing, manufacturing, and testing. Our water data covers 100% of business operations at our facilities, but does not include water used in the delivery of our services at the wellsite. Water used at the wellsite in processes such as drilling or pressure pumping are not included because this water is purchased, controlled, and accounted for by our customers. Our overall water use increased to 4.9 million cubic meters in 2018 from 3.8 million cubic meters in 2017. This increase was primarily due to enhancing the scope of our reporting to include previously unaccounted international subsidiaries and increased activity in Russia and the Middle East. Waste Management Our waste data covers 100% of our business operations, and includes waste from facilities, manufacturing, building, remodeling, and discarded sand from wellsite operations. We reuse materials when possible and continue to seek opportunities to reduce both our direct consumption of resources and the waste we generate. In 2018, our waste generated decreased by 6.7% to 503,000 metric tons from 539,000 metric tons in 2017. Our waste recycled remained flat and we recycled 182,000 metric tons of waste in 2018. Raw Materials  Our raw materials data include use of sand, proppants, brines, cement, barite, and bentonite. In 2018, our raw materials use increased to 10.5 million tonnes from 8.4 million tonnes in 2017. This was primarily driven by increased hydraulic fracturing activity in North America. Raw material utilization usually follows changes in wellsite activity. Electricity Use Electricity use increased to 1,284,000 Megawatt hours in 2018 from 1,154,000 Megawatt hours in 2017. This increase was primarily due to an increase in facility-related activity in North America and follows the increase in total hours worked and total revenue. Our electricity use data covers 100% of our business operations. CO2e Emitted (Scope 1) (million tonnes) 1.42 1.36 2017 2018 CO2e per $B Revenue (tonnes per year) 63,075 62,929 2017 2018 Water Use (million cubic meters) 4.9 3.8 2017 2018 CO2e Emitted (Scope 2) (million tonnes) 0.64 0.56 2017 2018 CO2e per Employee (tonnes per year) 20.6 19.2 2017 2018 Waste Generated by Year (thousand tonnes) 539 503 2017 2018 Hydrocarbon Bulk Fluids Spilled (barrels) 436 2017 2018 Electricity Use (thousands of MWh) 1,284 1,154  2017 2018 Fuel Consumption (by type) 96% 4% Distillate Fuel Diesel/Gas Oil No. 1 Oil Material Environmental Issues Based on information obtained from our customers along with an internal review that assessed applicability, degree of impact, and risk, Schlumberger has identified three environmental issues that are material to our business. Our top material risk, unintended releases to the environment, includes both well integrity and container integrity. We also continue to monitor our water use and our GHG emissions and continue to assess new methods for water optimization and GHG reductions. Unintended Releases to the Environment A properly constructed well creates barriers crucial to reducing the risk of uncontrolled release of formation fluids. Ensuring well integrity requires a thorough understanding of the short- and long-term conditions that the well might encounter, knowledge that enables optimization of the well design from the very beginning. Schlumberger has a portfolio of unique cementing technologies and logging tools for ensuring and evaluating well integrity. Zonal isolation is created and maintained in the wellbore through the cementing process. Cement supports and protects well casings and helps prevent fluids in one zone from mixing with fluids in another zone. Cement systems that help establish zonal isolation work in a variety of reservoir conditions and remain in place throughout the life of the well. Schlumberger cementing technologies provide a wide range of solutions to achieve zonal isolation. We have developed a Well Integrity Barrier Standard containing 10 critical requirements that employees must follow on the job. The development of this standard involved a company-wide initiative to raise awareness and impose mandatory rules defining the minimum requirements for training, certification, and knowledge of the barriers we provide. We also use a risk assessment methodology to ensure that sufficient controls are in place to prevent the failure of any barriers we provide to our customers. Focusing on process safety, the methodology uses risk evaluation to analyze and demonstrate causal relationships in high-risk scenarios. We developed two corporate risk assessments: one for undesired events, such as the unplanned loss of a Schlumberger-provided barrier, and one for the loss of containment. To prevent unplanned discharges, we also test the integrity of our containers on a regular basis, taking into consideration the unique conditions of each container, including its existing condition, age, service history, original construction specifications, and previous inspection results. Regularly scheduled inspections, evaluations, and testing of bulk storage containers by qualified personnel are critical parts of discharge prevention. Our inspection and testing program involves an external visual inspection along with extensive testing and examination to evaluate container integrity. These inspections are site specific and they meet or exceed industry standards. Additionally, the Schlumberger Environmental Management Standard establishes a minimum level of protection for all primary containers by using secondary containment, spill preparedness and response, and prohibitions against certain activities. This requirement is implemented even when local regulatory requirements are set to a lower standard. To identify efficient ways to reduce the number and severity of spills, in 2016, one Schlumberger subsidiary, M-I SWACO, initiated Material Issues* Unintended releases to the environment Greenhouse gas emissions Water use optimization the Environmental Spill Incident Review Program and conducted a full analysis of spill incidents with an emphasis on data. The program produced qualitative and quantitative information through four corresponding initiatives: technical analysis of spill data; teamwork through quarterly spill review calls; training of personnel to understand spill causes and prevention; and tracking of global progress. By identifying trends in data and the top four causes of spills, better practices and training were put in place for spill management and prevention. The program helped to reduce M-I SWACO’s monthly spill rate by 32% from 2016 to 2018. Water Use Optimization Responsible water management is key to our operations and the growth of our Company. Through corporate engagement, facility management, and technological innovation, Schlumberger recognizes the importance of water use to our Company and communities around the world. By incorporating next-generation technologies and services into operations in water-stressed areas, we are preparing for a transition within our industry to meet evolving regulatory measures and community expectations. In 2017, Schlumberger began a pilot program to identify high-water.use facilities in the Rocky Mountains, and developed an innovative facility water model to aid water management. The water model helped evaluate water use patterns at a facility level and divided water use into four categories: domestic, vehicle washing, irrigation, and facility-specific services. By comparing water model estimates with monthly invoiced water charges at each facility, managers were able to identify excess consumption patterns and put strategies in place to reduce consumption. In 2018, this program was expanded to the Permian Basin. The program’s expansion helped increase our understanding of the unique variables that impact water usage depending on location, which assists us in developing tailored solutions for water reduction. In 2018, Schlumberger opened a sand mine in Monahans, Texas. A main area of focus in designing this mine was water conservation, in order to preserve the underground water supply in West Texas. Schlumberger’s investment in a closed loop system, plate presses and a wet pile decanting system resulted in over 98% of water recovery—an approximate savings of 157 million gallons per year. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our greenhouse gas emissions strategy is driven by internal and external areas of focus. Externally, we provide a broad range of technologies and services to help our customers lower their emissions. Development of an oil and gas field can be intensive, often requiring hundreds of wells utilizing equipment for drilling and completion as well as delivery of large quantities of resources. Our technologies help our customers achieve lower emissions by reducing the delivery of resources such as proppant and water to the wellsite, and by drilling wells faster and more efficiently. Internally, we continue to direct our efforts at increasing the accuracy of our emissions measurements by adding more data sources and expanding the geographic scope of our emissions scrutiny. This work enables us to better understand our overall greenhouse gas footprint and find new ways to reduce our emissions. *Notwithstanding the use of the terms “material” and “materiality” in this report, Schlumberger believes that individual companies are best suited to determine what information is “material” under the long-standing U.S. Supreme Court definition of that term and whether to disclose this information in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission financial filings. Please refer to the “Disclaimer” on the inside back cover of this report for additional information. Schlumberger has identified three key environmental risks: unintended releases to the environment, which includes both well integrity and container integrity; greenhouse gas emissions; and water use optimization. We also continue to monitor these risks and assess new methods for mitigating unintended releases and reducing GHG emissions and water use. 