Community Schlumberger’s long-established values have always included a commitment to invest in our people and the technologies they develop. We also actively seek to have a positive impact on the communities where we live and work, bringing benefit to the generations of today and tomorrow. In this Section  Education  36  Stewardship in Action  41  Health and Safety  44  Social and Economic Impact  52  Stakeholder Engagement  58  Employment and Human Capital  62  Local Initiatives and Global Impact  72  342 Combined number of HSE for Youth and SEED workshops designed to inspire young people. Learn more about the Schlumberger commitment to the community: www.slb.com/globalstewardship/community Continuing our corporate focus on science education, we hosted 143 SEED workshops and 199 HSE for Youth workshops around the world in 2017. We also provided 38 new Faculty for the Future fellowships to women in emerging and developing economies. During the year, our HSE team mounted a number of disaster relief efforts around the world, including a campaign for Hurricane Harvey relief that raised more than USD 260,000 for Houston employees needing assistance. In addition, we introduced a Veteran Program to assist returning veterans in their transition back to civilian life. By combining our advanced technology with increased engagement in the communities where we live and work, we are reducing our impact on the environment while also helping our host countries build capacity and resilience at the local level. USD 260,000 Amount raised to assist Houston-area employees affected by Hurricane Harvey. 634 Number of women from developing and emerging countries awarded Faculty for the Future Fellowships since 2004. Education We believe that empowering the educational advancement of schoolchildren and women makes a powerful contribution to developing economies, as well as to the individuals themselves. Our educational focus is on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects.  Our community outreach programs are fully aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of ensuring quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all. Through our outreach programs we offer learning opportunities for schoolchildren, we help students understand and adopt HSE-related standards, and we fund women from developing and emerging economies to pursue advanced graduate study in STEM subjects at top universities worldwide. Community Outreach Initiatives SEED Faculty for the Future HSE for Youth Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) is an educational program focusing on communities where Schlumberger people live and work. Through SEED, Schlumberger engages employees, educators, retirees, and volunteers around the world to share their passion for learning and science with students. As a hands-on program that relies on the scientific and technological expertise of our employee volunteers, SEED focuses on STEM topics through camps, teacher professional development, workshops, and classroom visits. The SEED educational program is also focused on robotics, computer science, and energy education. Computer Science SEED sponsors workshops and clubs that introduce computer-based programming and coding to students as early as the second grade with an MIT-based platform called SCRATCH. To encourage more students to take an interest in computer science, we also donate resources related to our Petrel* E&P software platform to high schools and universities around the world. Schlumberger has partnered with Code.org, Microsoft TEALS, the Computer Science Teacher Association, and local educational systems to support the professional development of teachers in computer science education.  Robotics SEED sponsors schools through a variety of learning opportunities, such as an introduction to robotics, construction of robots, programming via RobotC, and competitive challenges. For example, during some competitions, teams of students compete against each other to build a robot, and in the Schlumberger-sponsored robotics clubs, students learn about robotic programming. Students also learn about Schlumberger Robotics Services, which is building an ocean sensor network intended to help solve some of the world’s greatest challenges and gain valuable insights into the marine environment. Energy Education We have formed partnerships with the American Geosciences Institute, Society of Petroleum Engineers, National Energy Education Development, and the Offshore Energy Center to develop workshops and educational programs that help students and teachers understand the highly technical skillset needed to work in the energy industry. We have also partnered with the Independent Petroleum Association of America to provide externships designed to introduce high school students to the energy industry. PetroChallenge PetroChallenge is a series of educational events held at universities and secondary schools that was designed to enhance students’ knowledge about the oil and gas industry and develop their interest in pursuing educational and professional careers in the industry. PetroChallenge uses the OilSim* upstream learning simulator. Teams collaborate and compete against each other to discover and develop hydrocarbons. The OilSim simulator is also used by the industry to train professionals in technical and non-technical disciplines, such as geology, geophysics, project management, strategy, decision making and teamwork. STEM Workshops by the Numbers 143 17,689 Workshops Students 1,316 1,008 Teachers Volunteers The Schlumberger Foundation awarded 38 new fellowships and renewed an additional 140 fellowships in its Faculty for the Future program for the 2017–2018 academic year. Texans Stats Challenge The Houston Texans professional football team and Schlumberger have partnered to create Stats Challenge, a fun program that gives grade six students an opportunity to learn math through the game of football. The Stats Challenge curriculum corresponds to the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills standard and strives to make math exciting by including classroom activities on ratios, rational numbers, and percentages. Since 2015, the program has helped more than 50,000 students in 450 classrooms in Houston and other cities in Texas.  Community Leaders  The Houston Astros professional baseball team maintains a Community Leaders program that is renovating baseball and softball fields over a five-year period for Houston-area children through a USD 18 million investment in city-owned public parks. The renovations and additional safety features are funded by corporate involvement in the Community Leaders program at no cost to taxpayers. To date, 20 fields in eight parks have been renovated and additional refurbishments are under way. The program includes year-round field maintenance and currently serves more than 1,200 children. As a corporate member, Schlumberger contributes financially to the Community Leaders program. Science Project Challenge in Nigeria  SEED and the Nigerian Academy of Science (NAS) collaborated on a science project challenge designed to give educators and students opportunities to explore STEM subjects through practical problem-solving activities. Schools in Nigeria are assigned a mentor by the NAS to help apply their knowledge of engineering principles and participants compete at an annual exposition where the best projects are recognized. Robotics Workshop in Ecuador In Nuevo Rocafuerte, Ecuador, there was a STEM workshop for 90 students aged six to 16 years. Schlumberger volunteers introduced the students to a variety of engineering topics and facilitated a robotics workshop. The experience also enabled the students to learn more about potential careers in engineering and science. SEED Workshop in Curaçao   In Curaçao, Schlumberger hosted a SEED workshop for elementary students. The students learned about careers in science and technology and different forms of energy through workshops on electronic circuit, electro-magnetism, and wind power. The event also focused on injury prevention, providing students with tips on how to be safe during outdoor activities. First SEED Workshop in Libya   Schlumberger employees in Tripoli, Libya, conducted the first SEED workshop for 15 students aged eight to 14 years. During the workshop, which focused on Fruit Power, students learned about electricity, the principles and operation of batteries, and how to make a battery out of fruit. To further the students’ understanding of electrical engineering, employees also provided a lesson on electric circuits that explained the difference between series and parallel circuits. Faculty for the Future Faculty for the Future enables women from developing economies to pursue advanced graduate studies in STEM subjects at top-tier universities around the world. Since its launch in 2004, the program has awarded fellowships to 634 women from 81 developing and emerging countries.  The Schlumberger Foundation, an independent nonprofit entity that supports STEM education, awarded 38 new fellowships and renewed an additional 140 fellowships in its Faculty for the Future program for the 2017–2018 academic year. Faculty for the Future fellows pursued doctoral and postdoctoral studies at 251 universities worldwide in 2017. The fellowships represent the Schlumberger Foundation’s long-term investment in a community of highly qualified role models who help narrow the gender gap in STEM disciplines by inspiring more women to study science. Fellowships are awarded based on the applicant’s academic ability, leadership qualities, and engagement in outreach activities toward underserved communities with STEM as a development instrument in their home countries. Recipients of Faculty for the Future fellowships have achieved academic excellence throughout their studies, often despite considerable financial challenges and traditional barriers to women’s education. After completing their studies, the alumnae are required to return to their home countries to contribute to economic, social, and technological advancement by strengthening the teaching and research faculties of their home institutions and taking positions in the public sector where their newly acquired technical and scientific skills can help provide evidence-based support for policy-making. The research focus of the newest cohort of Fellows is diverse, with the top five disciplines being engineering, climate and environmental sciences, chemistry, computer sciences, and agriculture. This reflects the regional challenges the fellows encounter and reveals their determination to improve conditions in their home countries through science. In addition to enabling women to attend graduate school, Faculty for the Future hosts forums where fellows and alumnae share their experiences and foster cooperation while debating topics of interest. In 2017, two forums were organized—in Bandung, Indonesia in August and Cambridge, England in November—offering an opportunity for the participants to collaborate, learn from each other, and network with distinguished scientists and other invited speakers. HSE for Youth   More than 4,000 young people participated in 199 HSE for Youth workshops held in 41 countries in 2017. More than 677 parents and other volunteers helped organize the workshops teaching children to stay alert, think calmly, and act quickly to protect themselves when at home, in school, or elsewhere in the community. Participants included more than 400 children of our customers, 1,600 children from local communities including schools and orphanages, and about 2,000 children of Schlumberger employees. The workshops on nine HSE for Youth topics are helping thousands of children learn about personal safety through games and fun activities. The latest workshop, developed in 2017 on the topic of first aid, is being well-received HSE for Youth by the Numbers Location Number of Workshops Middle East and Asia 54 Africa 30 Europe 15 North America 26 South America 37 Russia 37 Total 199 Topics Number of Workshops Injury Prevention 35 Personal Security 23 Internet Safety 48 Road Safety 50 HIV/AIDS 7 Climate Change/Environment 5 Water 18 Malaria 3 First Aid 10 Total 199 HSE for Youth in Action In December, two fire trucks and an ambulance attended an HSE for Youth event in Houston, where approximately 25 children of Schlumberger employees learned first-aid techniques that focused on cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and choking. During the workshop, two of the firefighters raced each other to don firefighting gear, and the children practiced a number of first-aid techniques on mannequins. Using the Company’s proprietary “Risk Ring” methodology, the children also learned about making safe choices. The event finished with a pizza party and certificates of completion for the children. Also in December, Schlumberger employees and more than 150 of their teen and pre-teen children got together with the families of Addax Petroleum, a Schlumberger customer in Douala, Cameroon, for a HSE for Youth workshop and year-end celebration. Schlumberger frequently invites the children of customers and people in local communities to take part in HSE for Youth workshops, but this was the first time Addax invited an oilfield services company to attend its annual year-end event. Stewardship in Action:  Community Outreach Schlumberger employees are involved in a wide range of workplace initiatives and community projects that help build local capacity. Many of these initiatives involve education, particularly in STEM subjects. We also celebrate diversity and promote health and safety wherever we live and work. A Vision for Sustainability Jean-François Poupeau, Executive Vice President Corporate Engagement, spoke on the topic of sustainability at a global oil and gas conference hosted by UBS. Poupeau highlighted Schlumberger’s commitment to its stakeholders and emphasized how the Company’s core values of people, technology, and profits guide its approach to the environment, community engagement, corporate governance, and ethics. He went on to describe several initiatives that are helping Schlumberger achieve its environmental, social, and governance (ESG) objectives. Schlumberger Joins IPIECA Schlumberger was the first company to become an associate member of IPIECA, an international oil and gas association that promotes best practices in environmental and social issues. IPIECA is the industry’s principal channel of communication with the United Nations on sustainability programs. Associate membership is open to companies providing services relating to exploration, production, treatment, storage, or transportation. The Company’s association with IPIECA became effective in January 2017, and through IPIECA’s Social Responsibility Working Group, Schlumberger was involved in mapping the oil & gas industry to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Atlas. A Decade of Geoscience Aid The Society of Exploration Geophysicists launched Geoscientists Without Borders® (GWB) in 2008 with a five-year grant from Schlumberger, and we have continued our support for the program every year since then. GWB funds projects that help geoscientists apply their specialized knowledge and technical skills towards supporting humanitarian applications of geoscience around the world. Each project involves students working with experienced geoscientists to learn how to use technologies for humanitarian efforts, providing real-world experience for the students and bringing important social contributions to communities. To date, GWB has funded 35 projects in 27 countries, enabling geoscientists to help communities in need of groundwater management; earthquake, landslide, tsunami and volcano hazard preparedness; habitat management; pollution mitigation; and archeological investigations. As an example, in 2016 and 2017 GWB funded a project to examine evidence preserved in the geological record for past tsunami events along the coast of Java, an island of Indonesia. Many coastal communities inhabit areas inundated by past tsunamis. However, most people in these areas, including disaster mitigation agencies, are not aware that they are at risk of recurring tsunamis. This risk is increasing in Indonesia, due mostly to exponential population growth and urbanization in vulnerable coastal regions, and to lack of tsunami hazards awareness. In 2016, the project team investigated sites along the 1,200-km coast of Java for geological and geophysical evidence of past tsunami events. Investigators found that during the past 400 years there have been 105 tsunamis throughout Indonesia – an average of at least one tsunami every four years. Two of these tsunamis struck the densely populated south coast of Java, but were relatively minor. These findings were presented to more than 2,500 Javanese people through local community-based disaster mitigation organizations. The team also trained disaster mitigation agencies on how to use tsunami-modeling software and develop tsunami inundation maps for their communities. Ten evacuation drills were conducted in four different sites. On the other side of the world, a GWB-funded team worked in 2016 and 2017 on a project to complete geophysical mapping of two important aquifers in Bolivia. The Challapampa and Punata aquifers supply water to local communities and farmers, serving populations of 300,000 to 400,000 people. Because the aquifers were poorly documented in terms of geometry and variation in aquifer properties, the project team conducted geophysical mapping to provide key information for management and protection of the aquifers, which are being threatened with over-exploitation and decreasing groundwater levels. In addition, groundwater quality is suffering from contamination caused by mining and industrial activities as well as road transport, latrines, pesticides and fertilizers. The GWB project combined its acquisition of information about the aquifers with training of students and with knowledge transfer to local authorities within the groundwater and environmental sector. In 2010, GWB funded a pollution mitigation project after 40 years of aggressive mining and ore processing in Romania’s Ampoi Valley. GWB project leaders and students used near-surface geophysical and geochemical investigations to map the area’s soil and aquifers for quality and degree of contamination. After those investigations, the Romanian government constructed a USD 10 million pipeline to bring potable water to local communities. More than 500 undergraduate, graduate, and continuing education students in countries around the world have participated in these projects. In 2014, Geoscientists Without Borders was honored by World Oil as Best Outreach Program. Celebrating First National Indigenous Peoples in Canada Schlumberger Canada hosted its first National Indigenous Peoples of Canada celebration. Attended by dozens of Schlumberger employees, the celebration featured three keynote speakers from indigenous communities and support organizations. The event provided an opportunity for employees to learn more about the indigenous people of Canada and the relationship between indigenous people and the energy industry. Energy Day 2017    Schlumberger sponsored and took part in Energy Day 2017 in Denver, Colorado, and Houston, Texas. Energy Day is a free family festival showcasing numerous exhibits that teach attendees about various forms of energy, including energy efficiency and conservation. The mission of Energy Day is to bridge the gap between education, career adoption, and the STEM and energy industries through fun and interactive exhibits and activities. Supporting Careers in Science In 2006, Schlumberger was a founding sponsor of the CGénial Foundation in France, furthering its mission to promote careers for young people in science, technology, and related professions. This sponsorship has continued every year since.  In addition to promoting scientific and technical careers, the foundation works to develop exchanges between youth and the science and business communities, advance science education in middle and high schools, inform young people about major societal issues related to the advancement of science and technology, and bring the world of business and education closer together. Activities in 2017 included bringing engineers and technicians into 373 classrooms to talk to more than 10,000 students about a career in science; bringing more than 2,000 teachers from 23 academic institutions into 130 companies and 209 industrial sites to talk with engineers and technicians; organizing a science competition for 8,315 students from 279 schools in which 324 projects were presented; implementing a new program, “Yes we code!,” for 200 students; and offering an annual prize to promote entrepreneurship. We Are Girls Conference    Employees volunteered at the We Are Girls Conference held in Houston and Austin, Texas. This conference introduces girls between the ages of eight and 14 to the electrical engineering field. Volunteers facilitated a Build Your Own Light-Emitting Diode (LED) Earrings workshop in which the girls learned the basics of electrical engineering, electric circuits, and soldering. The volunteers then assisted participants in soldering their own pair of LED earrings. In Austin, girls made simple and parallel circuits using paper, copper tape, LEDs, and three-volt coin-cell batteries. Participants gained a better understanding of careers in engineering and greater confidence in themselves. Barbara Bush Houston Literacy Foundation Schlumberger employees volunteered at two Barbara Bush Houston Literacy Foundation summer camp adventures at Houston-area schools. Employees introduced hundreds of elementary school students to careers in engineering and facilitated buoyancy and circuitry experiments. This experience generated an interest in STEM for many of the participants and helped fulfill the Barbara Bush Houston Literacy Foundation’s mission to “improve the quality of life for Houstonians of all ages through the power of literacy.”   Work Experience Program in England The Schlumberger Stonehouse Technology Center hosted 15 students in grades 11 and 12 for a week-long work experience program. The students visited many Schlumberger facilities, participating in activities to help them learn about E&P and the integral part that STEM fields play in the industry. Manufacturing, supply chain logistics, and computer programing seminars also gave them an opportunity to develop a wide breadth of knowledge and skills that will better prepare them for their continuing education and eventual careers. Annual SPE Technical Conference and Exhibition During the Offshore Technology Conference in Houston and the Annual Technical Conference Exhibition in San Antonio, Schlumberger sponsored energy education workshops for more than 300 teachers and students from Texas high schools. Workshops consisted of an interactive presentation by Energy4Me and a guided conference tour by Schlumberger volunteers. During the tour, participants had the opportunity to see displays highlighting Schlumberger technology, software, and mechanical equipment. Technology Engagement Program in Nigeria Schlumberger launched the Technology Engagement Program for undergraduate students at the University of Benin in Benin City, Nigeria. The initiative focused on developing the competencies of talented undergraduates from Nigerian universities in building software technologies to address E&P industry needs. Over a six-week period, students underwent intensive training and mentorship in the development of software technologies to address shortfalls in seismic interpretation and fluid distribution mapping. Houston Maker Faire      For the second consecutive year, Schlumberger participated in the Houston Maker Faire. The faire appeals to curious minds of all ages and provided exhibits in robotics, 3D printing, laser cutting, virtual reality, and other technologies. At the Schlumberger booth, employees presented Oil-X, a science kit the Company designed to introduce students to petroleum engineering. Oil-X is a fun and interactive way for students to learn about energy while also learning technical concepts such as robotics and coding. Health and Safety Schlumberger is a recognized industry leader in Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) performance. The Company is committed to maintaining the highest health and safety standards for employees, customers, and contractors. Our commitment encompasses health and safety risks in the workplace, the field, and during travel on Company business. Our management team applies rigorous policies and standards throughout the Company. The principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide are defined in the Schlumberger HSE Management System. In addition, we have a long-standing commitment to sharing best practices through technical papers and other means such as active involvement with industry trade associations and specialist HSE organizations. Health To reduce work-related and location-specific health risks, Schlumberger promotes industrial hygiene, ergonomics, a healthy lifestyle, and preventive medicine. Good health management helps to reduce illness in the workplace, increase employee and family well-being, minimize medical evacuations, and streamline health care costs. It also helps the Company increase customer retention and satisfaction, optimize business performance and the Company’s reputation, and reduce project disruptions while protecting the health of all involved. We have a global network of health professionals (doctors, nurses, paramedics) in GeoMarket* regions, individual countries, and field sites to provide medical support at our operational locations. Each of these locations has a specific preventive training program with a significant focus on medical and occupational health and industrial hygiene, and each program is adapted to the working environment and location. All our employees undergo medical checks to ensure their fitness level is adapted to the medical environment of the project to which they have been assigned. To reflect the findings and conclusions of the fitness evaluation of our employees, 15 levels of fitness restriction have been defined. Employees having potentially serious health/medical issues are prevented from working on remote operational locations (i.e. offshore, on a vessel, or on a project located more than one hour from the nearest secondary or tertiary medical facility). This restriction has greatly helped to reduce the number of medical evacuations during the last 15 years. We conduct a Health Risk Assessment (HRA) before a new operation begins and regularly thereafter. The HRA determines the risk level of the upcoming operation based on the activity performed and the exposure to potential and existing medical and/or work environment health hazards. Results of the HRA are combined with an assessment of our medical Emergency Response Plan to ensure that an efficient and reliable response is provided in case of emergency. Schlumberger has developed specific health training and certifications in response to identifying the health risks that have the potential for rapid global expansion, including SARS, H1N1, Ebola, and Zika outbreaks. Cardiovascular Diseases Cardiovascular diseases are the most common causes of non-occupational deaths in Schlumberger. In 2017, Schlumberger created a cardiovascular disease awareness campaign that was translated into 10 languages and distributed to Company locations worldwide. Health Campaigns in Angola   Schlumberger employees in Angola implemented a Kill the Buzz campaign at multiple locations to raise awareness about malaria prevention and misconceptions. Attended by nearly 300 employees, the campaign encouraged early diagnosis and testing in both adults and children. Each event concluded with a quiz during which employees received mosquito-repellent nets and other items as prizes. Employees in Luanda, Angola, held a Make a Child Smile campaign to cheer up children who were in-patients on the pediatric ward of the Americo Boavida Hospital in the city. Employees donated 120 toys as well as crayons and coloring books to the children. Heart Healthy Campaign  Schlumberger has been supporting the Houston Heart Walk, which raises funds for the American Heart Association, for six years. In 2017, a team of 320 employees and their families joined the walk to raise awareness about the benefits of exercise. Schlumberger also continued a global Getting Heart Healthy campaign to raise awareness among employees about how to prevent the development of cardiovascular risk factors and what to do in case of heart attack. Company employees around the world came together to support the campaign. Health and Wellness Campaign in Singapore Employees at the Singapore Center introduced a health and wellness campaign for employees that included participation in Singapore’s National Corporate Steps Challenge, an exercise event, and an information session on the effects of noise and the importance of proper office ergonomics. These events provided fun and interactive ways for employees to stay healthy at work. Schlumberger created a cardiovascular disease awareness campaign that was translated into 10 languages and distributed to Company locations worldwide. Safety Shared Responsibility for Safety Schlumberger maintains a safe and productive work environment free from alcohol, controlled substances, and illegal drugs. We design our equipment and workplaces to enable safe operations and we provide comprehensive training in injury prevention, driving safety, hazard identification, and risk assessment and management. We require comprehensive reporting of hazardous situations and conditions to identify opportunities for improvement and remedial actions to prevent recurrence. We also empower and obligate employees to intervene and stop any job if they consider a situation to be unsafe, a practice fully supported by Company management. HSE Management System The Schlumberger HSE Management System states the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide in regards to health, safety, security, and the environment (HSE). We establish and communicate HSE priorities, objectives, requirements to all employees, contractors, customers, and third parties associated with our business. Our corporate HSE standards are implemented in all our operations and comprehensively assessed to assure compliance.  Fatalities Schlumberger suffered three work-related fatalities in 2017. One contractor was fatally injured during mechanical lifting activities at a wellsite. One employee was fatally injured by a fall from less than 1.4 meters, and a contractor was involved in a head-on motor vehicle collision. Each of these fatalities was studied extensively and the associated lessons learned were communicated company-wide. Security Management Due to the nature of our global business and operations, Schlumberger maintains a focus on managing security for our personnel and assets. Our employees and their families, contractors and third parties, and our Company assets may be exposed to security-related threats, including armed conflict, criminality, and civil unrest. Our objective is to reduce security risks to a level “As Low As Reasonably Practicable” (ALARP) through effective implementation of fundamental and risk-based controls and active continuous monitoring of security conditions. All contracted security specialists are contractually required to adhere to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Schlumberger and contractors under Schlumberger operational control are required to ensure that security arrangements are the most appropriate in the circumstances and consistent with applicable laws and the following international standards: a) United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, b) Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, c) United Nations Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials, d) United Nations Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms. Crisis Management Schlumberger continued initiatives to cascade its crisis management training programs throughout the organization. In 2017, more than 200 employees attended crisis management workshops conducted around the world. This training incorporates best practices in crisis management techniques, practices from global academic experts, and expertise from within the Company. During the workshops, attendees participated in practical crisis management exercises. Mechanical Lifting and DROPS  Schlumberger continued implementation of our risk-based mechanical lifting and DROPS standards, which are both fully aligned with industry best practices. Additional training and communication resources have been developed to support the risk-based approach with a focus on personnel competence, lifting equipment and load integrity, hands-free lifting techniques and active DROPS Zone management.  Injury Prevention   Schlumberger is committed to injury prevention for employees and contractors through effective implementation of internal best practices and those from the oil and gas industry. Our total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) rate increased slightly in 2017. This was in large part due to an increase of operational activity in North America.  An annual analysis of our HSE data revealed that over 45% of personal injuries are related to hands and fingers. Although the overall number of personal injuries has decreased during the past 10 years, limited improvement has occurred in the hands and fingers category. To address this type of injury, communication programs and initiatives on hand and finger injury safety continue to be a focus area.   World Safety Day Schlumberger once again took part in World Safety Day in April by conducting emergency drills and responding to real-life scenarios at various facilities around the world. The scenarios were based on location-specific hazards and included occupational injury, chemical spills, unauthorized access, fire drills, and accident simulations. Employees also engaged in activities to reinforce best safety practices and address common attitudes and behaviors. Life-Saving Rules Campaign As part of World Safety Day, Schlumberger initiated a campaign to reaffirm the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) Life-Saving Rules. The IOGP Life-Saving Rules consist of 18 workplace rules to prevent the most common causes of upstream oil and gas industry fatalities.   Driving Safety   In 2017, our focus continued to be on driver training and journey management, and the implementation of advanced new technologies to improve driver performance. Our risk-based driving and journey management approach provides effective management of driving activities in more than 85 countries. Every Schlumberger driver, from field to office, is required to take regular fit-for-purpose driver training, including the use of simulators and driver-improvement monitors to provide real-time, in-vehicle driving performance feedback. We also actively share our experience and expertise with our customers and in the communities where we live and work through our HSE for Youth and community outreach programs. Our comprehensive driver management system consolidates the best practices of our various business groups to systematically eliminate accidents through training, journey and trip management, safe driving behavior, and compliance with Our Code of Conduct. Effective driver engagement continues to be a priority. Schlumberger has a comprehensive driver recognition program and is actively using technology solutions to engage individuals and reward desired driver behavior and performance, as the following examples demonstrate. In France, employees at the Roissy Technical Center took part in a series of driving simulations to better understand the dangers associated with driving. Employees participated in three separate simulations: reaction and breaking distance; the effect of Safety Milestones  Schlumberger celebrated no lost-time incidents at a number of facilities and locations around the world. Some examples include: • The Samarang Alliance achieved 7.6 million workhours without a single lost-time incident. The project team executed 27 wells, three major workovers, 200 rigless well interventions, four major modifications on existing platforms, and installation of four flexible pipelines in an offshore environment subject to seasonal monsoons with more than 50 contractors and 600 people involved during peak periods. • M-I SWACO, a Schlumberger company, celebrated 20 years without a lost-time incident in Cabinda, Angola, where it is supporting Chevron. Chevron management joined the celebrations to mark the occasion at the recently inaugurated Malembo support base. • The Early Production Facility team in Kuwait achieved seven million hours without a lost-time incident across all three of the project’s vast sites. • The Artificial Lift base in Inverurie, Scotland, celebrated 10 years without a lost-time incident. • More than one million workhours—equivalent to 15 years—have passed since the last lost-time incident was recorded by the Surface & Production Testing product line in Houma, Louisiana. This milestone includes shop, field, and offshore operations. impairment on vision and coordination; and a rollover simulation. These simulations gave employees the opportunity to experience first-hand what it is like to be involved in an accident, all in a safe environment. Instructors provided tips for how to minimize the risk of injury if involved in an accident. In Angola, police authorities invited Schlumberger to lead a driving safety workshop to improve road safety for drivers, passengers, and pedestrians. Schlumberger donated a seat belt convincer crash-simulation device that gives participants an opportunity to experience the effects of low-speed collisions with and without a seat belt. The device encourages the use of seat belts. In Malaysia, Schlumberger employees and contractors from Kemaman organized a road safety event in conjunction with the Terengganu State Road Safety Department of Malaysia. Three officials from the department presented best practices for staying safe as a motorist, cyclist, and pedestrian. This event furthered the department’s mission of inspiring people to “Drive Safe, Ride Safe, Walk Safe” and also supported the Schlumberger mission to reduce traffic accidents to zero.  Mobile App Promotes Safety Schlumberger has more than 45,000 certified drivers and 22,000 vehicles worldwide. We drive more than 27 million miles per month, equivalent to 32 times around the world per day. In 2017, we developed an eJourney mobile app for Android or iOS phones to help our employees and contractors stay safe on the road. The app enables drivers to manage their road trips without having to call in to a Schlumberger Global Journey Management Center. The app automatically calculates specific trip risk factors, helps keep track of driving certifications, and provides reminders when it is time to take a break. The eJourney mobile app was introduced in the United States and is now being made available to Schlumberger drivers around the world. Journey Management Centers Our Journey Management Centers around the world reinforce safe driving behaviors and deliver increased support for drivers during each journey. The centers ensure that every trip is verified for compliance with journey management procedures where higher-risk driving environments are subject to more stringent controls and standards. Real-time tracking monitors driving behavior and provides immediate feedback to drivers. By defining, measuring, and shaping driving behaviors, the centers help drivers continuously improve their performance. These centers serve more than 56 countries with real-time journey tracking in 15 languages 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. The Journey Management Centers also use data analytics to better understand driving behaviors and develop initiatives that promote continuous improvement. Our focus continues to be on driver training, journey management, and new technologies to improve driver performance. Assist & Assure Australia The Schlumberger Land Rigs team in Australia participated in a rollout by Shell of its Assist & Assure safety program, which is designed to improve HSE performance at the wellsite. Assist & Assure consists of two components – coaching and communicating (Assist); and measuring effectiveness (Assure). The program encourages active participation by workers in safety practices. After introducing Shell’s Assist & Assure program in our land rig operations in our Australia, the progress has been encouraging. Our 2017 NonProductive Time rate dropped below 1% (an overall NPT reduction of 45% compared to 2016); our Total Recordable Injury Frequency rate for 2017 was 0; and we achieved Goal Zero on all rigs. Shell’s Goal Zero ambition is to do no harm and have no leaks across all of its operations. In 2017, Schlumberger had no major or catastrophic service quality events in Australia. Performance Data Schlumberger captures HSE performance data through an online, enterprise-level business system that consolidates all HSE information. Accessible by all employees, this system enables them to monitor reported HSE events, incidents, observations, and hazardous situation reports. Lagging indicator incident data is used to benchmark our performance against industry data sources. The system facilitates the investigation process and the management of remedial work plans and actions to prevent recurrence. Comprehensive investigations are conducted for incidents and high-potential events to identify learning opportunities, and lessons learned are incorporated into improvements of our facilities, equipment, processes, training, and systems. To ensure continuous improvement, Schlumberger personnel are actively encouraged to report hazardous situations and near misses. We use this data to monitor trends and identify areas of concern. Schlumberger employees can also use the online business system to suggest improvements, post recognitions, track HSE training, and analyze HSE data. The system can be used to assign job-specific online HSE training and facilitate and track the testing and certification of computer-based training material. In 2017, Schlumberger launched a revised HSE reporting mobile app incorporating enhanced features and additional capabilities. Global campaigns focused on communicating learning from events using an HSE communications toolkit for facilitated safety meetings, poster campaigns, and HSE alerts. Our overall health and safety performance has shown steady progress. There was a slight deterioration in our TRIF rate in 2017, but an improvement in workforce lost-time incident rate (frequency). Our automotive accident rate showed a slight deterioration compared with 2016, primarily due to an influx of low-seniority personnel in logistics-intensive and rapidly growing markets. We have reinforced our commitment to improve driving and implement journey management across the entire organization, including short-service personnel. Our contractor lost-time injury rate (frequency) decreased from 0.56 injuries per million hours worked in 2016 to 0.42 injuries per million hours worked in 2017.   The International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) annually reports upstream oil and gas work-related safety performance statistics. Schlumberger uses the IOGP definitions and reporting criteria to classify HSE data. The data include injuries sustained by Company employees and contractors engaged in work-related activities. PwC auditors reviewed our processes and procedures for 2017 and verified this year’s selected subset of our data. The health and safety data audited included employee and contractor lost-time injury and occupational illness frequency rates. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are, in all material respects, fairly presented and in accordance with Schlumberger procedural guidelines. Note: 2016 data includes the Cameron Group from April through December. Fatal Accident Rate (per 100 million work hours) 1.87 0.53 2015 2016 2017 Total Recordable Injury Frequency (per million work hours) 1.43 1.26 1.29 2015 2016 2017 Combined Lost-Time Injury and Illness Frequency (per million work hours) 0.92 0.91 2015 2016 2017 Automotive Accident Rate (per million miles) 0.33 0.25 2015 2016 2017 Employee Lost-Time Injury Frequency (per million work hours) 0.57 0.49 0.49 2015 2016 2017 Contractor Lost-Time Injury Frequency (per million work hours) 0.56 0.46 0.42 2015 2016 2017 Fatalities by Year (employees) 151 2015 2016 2017 Fatalities by Year (contractors) 112 2015 2016 2017 Disaster Relief Efforts  Almost every year extreme weather events present a risk to our employees somewhere in the world. The Company is always ready to assist employees in times of crisis. The following examples show how our employees harnessed the power of teamwork in assisting coworkers affected by extreme weather. To aid people in Trinidad and Tobago who were devastated by hurricane conditions in June, members of the Schlumberger family came together to hold a charity drive that resulted in the donation of hundreds of water bottles, canned food, clothing, personal care products, candles and other home products. Hurricane Harvey devastated parts of the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast in August. A Harvey Relief group created in Yammer, an enterprise social networking service, enabled employees to share information and help each other. A Harvey Relief hotline— primarily staffed by volunteers from the Schlumberger Canada Land team—provided 24-hour phone line for employees negatively impacted by the storm. More than 200 employees gave their personal time to help over 70 Schlumberger families. Schlumberger provided short- and long-term housing accommodation for nearly 300 displaced employees and their families. The Company also created a Hurricane Harvey Relief Grant to provide financial assistance to affected employees.  After a 7.1-magnitude earthquake struck Mexico in September, Schlumberger employees in Villahermosa, Veracruz and Mexico City mobilized to provide relief for victims. More than 1,500 items of personal protective equipment were donated to the rescuers. Flooding in Penang, Malaysia, paralyzed the city and forced eight of our employees and their families to evacuate their homes. During the crisis, Schlumberger assisted those families in finding shelter, purchased groceries and provisions, made sure they were safe, and provided financial assistance. Social and Economic Impact Reflecting our belief that diversity spurs creativity, collaboration, and understanding the needs of our customers, we employ more than 100,000 people representing over 140 nationalities. This global work force is spread throughout more than 85 countries. Our employees are committed to working with our customers to create the highest level of added value. Knowledge communities and special interest groups within our organi.zation enable teamwork and knowledge sharing unencumbered by geographic boundaries. At the local level, we help countries build capacity and resilience by providing employ.ment and training for local workers and procuring goods and services locally. We take a long-term interest in our communities and strive to create shared value with actions that generate business value while also generating social value. Investing Locally In 2017, our community investment focus continued to address social  School for Volunteers  issues such as health and education. Because we care about our  More than 1,000 Schlumberger employees live and work in Tyumen,  impact on society, we focus on areas where our organizational  Russia, and there is increasing interest in volunteerism in the area.  strengths, our technological expertise, and our cultural values can  In 2017, Schlumberger launched a school for volunteers with a goal  have the greatest impact. Typically, this takes the form of investing  to train them to participate more effectively in community events,  in activities that involve education and training in STEM subjects.  including sporting activities and workshops for young people. The  pilot volunteer training class was held in February.  Our philanthropic activities reflect the Company’s values and focus  on a limited range of social and educational issues that call for  Family Day in Norway  strategic involvement and partnerships with community organizations.  OneSubsea, a Schlumberger company, hosted a Family Day in  We make our largest commercial investments in academia for basic  Horsy, Norway, for more than 200 employees and family members.  and applied research that we conduct in partnership with top  The focus of the event was on health and safety. Participants  universities, where we also contribute millions of dollars annually  received training in first aid, fire safety, boat safety, and driving  in reservoir software, training, and support. Our in-kind contributions  safety. The event provided an engaging way for families to learn  to the community include Schlumberger products, equipment, services,  about safe practices and develop a greater understating of how  and other noncash items, as well as 3D printers, refurbished computers,  to be safe while in the workplace and on vacation.  office supplies, and office furniture.  Socially Responsible Company  For the ninth consecutive year, Schlumberger was recognized by  the Mexican Center of Philanthropy as a socially responsible  company. The award was received in recognition of Schlumberger’s  charitable work in Mexico through programs such as SEED, HSE for  Youth, Good Neighbors, and the Jueguetn program. The award  reflects the Company’s commitment to having a positive impact in  the communities where we live and work.  In-Kind Giving Commercial Initiatives (billions) (billions) $2.3 $2.4 2016 2017 Community Initiatives (millions) (millions) $10 $9.27 2016 2017 Human Rights Schlumberger is committed to supporting the United Nations General Assembly Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our commitment is articulated in The Blue Print in Action–Our Code of Conduct, which states, “Schlumberger is committed to respecting the principles in The International Bill of Human Rights, and conducting business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity.” Schlumberger participates in the United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, which includes a picture of the Company’s activities on human rights. We also support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and continue to align our Global Stewardship program with them. Due Diligence During the year, Schlumberger developed a new methodology for screening proposed projects for social and environmental risks and impacts as a part of its regular due diligence process. The screening helps to ensure that local issues—such as protected areas, historical contamination, sensitive receptors, labor rights and working conditions, community conflict, and security issues—are incorporated into the decision-making process. In 2017, Canada, Nigeria, Iraq, Bahrain, India, Kazakhstan, and Argentina completed screenings using this new methodology. Baseline Surveys Projects with a high potential for significant social and environmental impact are required to have in place a social and environmental baseline that serves as a knowledge base for all aspects of the project’s performance, including the management of possible human rights impacts. In 2017, independent studies were commissioned in Argentina, Georgia and Nigeria. Social Risk Assessments  Social risk assessments are designed for projects with a high potential for significant social and environmental impact. The proprietary tool we use has three integrated phases: planning, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation. Information collected during the planning phase is used to analyze social hazards in terms of risks to people and projects and to develop appropriate responses. Since we implemented the social risks assessment process in 2009, 40 assessments have been completed in more than 15 countries. Five social risk assessments were completed or updated in Latin America, North America, Africa, and Asia in 2017.  Conflict Sensitivity Schlumberger Production Management (SPM) developed a new conflict-sensitive business approach in Ecuador in 2017. The approach involves working with community stakeholders during a series of workshops designed to help SPM understand how new operations may interact with pre-existing conflicts or tensions in a community. Our goal is to better understand the issues the community faces by bringing them into the planning process to ensure that decisions made by Schlumberger and our contractors do not cause or exacerbate conflict.  2005 2009 2010 2011 Developed guidelines relating to working conditions Established our social responsibility process and began Reviewed 400 statements of Company policy, Completed a review of customer and peer human rights and eligibility for supply chain contractors. conducting social risk assessments for large-footprint standards, and guidelines against the Business and statements and policies to improve our understanding projects in sensitive operating environments. Human Rights Matrix developed by the Business of the United Nations’ Protect, Respect, and Remedy Leaders Initiative on Human Rights. framework. 2013  2014  2015  2017  Introduced a new Social and Environmental Management Standard that recognizes IFC Performance Standards as a key point of reference for our large-footprint projects.  Revised our Security Standard to incorporate references to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.  Developed preliminary alignment of our Global Stewardship program with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.  First oilfield services company to become an associate member of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues.  Supply Chain Schlumberger Supply Chain Services provides our field and manufacturing locations with supplier management, strategic sourcing, logistics, and inventory management. Supply chain processes are regularly reviewed to ensure quality in our services and products. Every supplier we select must comply with Schlumberger standards.  Acquiring goods and services from local suppliers is a legal and contractual obligation in many countries where we work, but we also view it as a way to maximize our positive impact in communities where we live and work. We contribute to the social and economic development of these communities by supporting initiatives that improve living conditions, providing business and growth opportunities, developing and fostering long-term relationships, recruiting and training where we work, and buying local services and products.  We expect the highest ethical standards of business conduct and compliance with local laws and regulations from our suppliers. By helping local suppliers meet our industry requirements, we seek to promote innovation through the sourcing of new products and services. This helps to develop alternative channels for procuring goods and services and creates new business opportunities in the locations where we operate. In today’s competitive global economy, we know that strong relationships with our suppliers are essential to meeting our own needs, the needs of our customers, and national content. We only procure goods and services from financially stable, technically qualified, and reliable sources. Our preferred suppliers are those who work with us in a professional, ethical, competitive, and cost-effective manner consistent with Schlumberger policies, procedures, and business objectives. When evaluating potential suppliers, Schlumberger considers delivery, price, reliability, operational costs, and after-sales support. Local Suppliers We invest time and resources to help local suppliers meet our stringent quality and HSE standards. Our investment in things such as safety training, driver training, installation of in-vehicle monitors, and vehicle maintenance standards helps build the competitiveness of local vendors. All our social investments in local suppliers are underpinned by core principles: they must be connected to our business and rooted in the communities where we work; and they must be focused, streamlined, and accountable. Supply Chain Management  Schlumberger maintains a Supplier Management Dashboard that analyzes our spending by supplier, commodity, geography, business segment, legacy company, and trends over time. Schlumberger supplier managers are responsible for evaluating suppliers against our established performance metrics for them to be included in our approved supplier list. The analysis includes a tally for total procurement spending. Performance Data Awareness Critical suppliers for which Spend analysis covers more than 40% of their revenue 100% of suppliers comes from Schlumberger 41,232 suppliers 79 suppliers Risk Assessment Of spend is covered  Suppliers that are  in risk analysis  at high risk  Risk Management  Supplier audits were Of audited suppliers have a conducted in 2017 documented development plan Critical Suppliers Suppliers are classified as critical if they provide materials, components, or services that may significantly influence one or more aspects of Schlumberger products and service performance. This includes elements such as safety, technology, and competitiveness as well as compliance with operations integrity, HSE, and ethics standards.  Comprehensive audits of our critical suppliers are conducted per a defined schedule and may incorporate supplier performance, finance, contract, HSE, Quality, and Ethics and Compliance components, including human rights and labor questions. REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) is an European Union regulation that covers the manufacturing, importing, placement, and use of chemical substances. It provides a high level of protection to human health and the environment by making people responsible for understanding and managing the risks associated with chemical use. In 2017, Schlumberger continued to develop new chemicals and technologies that comply with REACH regulations in Europe. Furthermore, we reviewed our European chemicals portfolio to reduce our REACH registration costs. Conflict-Free Minerals Schlumberger is committed to purchasing only those parts and products containing minerals that have been procured through a validated conflict-free supply chain, avoiding the use of minerals that have financed conflict in the covered countries, and we expect our suppliers to abide by the same standard. When a validated conflict-free supply chain or a robust mineral-tracing program is established, we expect our direct suppliers to procure minerals using only that validated supply chain. If a direct supplier provides us with minerals that have not been procured through a validated supply chain or that are found to have financed conflict, we will recommend that the supplier seek an alternative means of sourcing to prevent possible termination of our relationship with that supplier. Freely Chosen Employment  Schlumberger is committed to, and expects from its suppliers, the highest ethical standards of business conduct and compliance with laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. We require that all work is voluntary and that workers are free to leave upon reasonable notice. We prohibit the use of forced, bonded, indentured, or involuntary prison labor. Developing Local Supply Chains Working in 85 countries presents several logistical challenges, one of which is difficult geographies. Success in these jurisdictions depends on having supply chain professionals capable of dealing with our complex operations. To enable a strong pipeline of people who have these skills, Schlumberger has partnered with top-tier supply chain training programs to assist our team members in geographies where supply chain training is not widely available. In 2017, these team members focused on learning and building expertise with the intention of returning to their markets and increasing the level of supply chain performance.  National Content Requirements During the past 10 years, many countries with oil and gas activities have introduced requirements for local or national content into their regulatory frameworks. These requirements seek to create jobs, promote enterprise development, and accelerate the transfer of skills and technologies to the benefit of local industries and populations. Our supply chain plays a key role in national content development through supplier sourcing, tendering, contract awarding, and spend management. We recognize that there are various aspects to national content, including development of national businesses through the purchase of goods and services manufactured within the country, or through goods and services purchased from firms owned by nationals of the country.  To help ensure that local communities benefit from our activities, Schlumberger developed and tested a process in 2017 through which our supply chain teams can prioritize and manage our supplier base with respect to national content requirements. The process was piloted in three countries within our Sub-Saharan Africa GeoMarket region—Mozambique, Tanzania, and Uganda—and is now being reviewed for implementation in other countries. Supply Chain Program for First Australians In 2017, Schlumberger launched a local suppliers’ development program for First Australians that is intended to drive improvements in our own supply chain performance and in the capacity of local suppliers. The program is initially supporting 23 Indigenous Australian suppliers in the categories of facility management, staffing, marketing, relocation, freight forwarding, and logistics. Our Supply Chain Program for First Australians is bringing educational, employment, and traineeship opportunities to numerous local communities in Australia and was designed to empower and upskill the local workforce, helping them become more self-sustainable over the long term. Critical Suppliers 2,230 44% 41,232 Critical Suppliers Critical Suppliers Total Suppliers (absolute number) (percentage of total spend) (absolute number) 