Social and Community Our commitment to social sustainability spans from our focus on employee health and safety, to preserving and respecting human dignity, to developing a diverse workforce, to promoting STEM and HSE education in the communities where we live and work. Our mature local content strategy launched in the early 2000’s forms the foundation of our in-country value globally. Social and Community Schlumberger’s long-established values have always included a commitment to invest in our people and local communities. By applying our high standards of conduct company-wide, our efforts have a positive impact on our employees, contractors, suppliers, and customers, as well as the communities in which we live and work. Education We believe that empowering the educational advancement of school children and women makes a powerful contribution to developing economies, as well as to the individuals themselves. Our educational focus is on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), as well as HSE subjects. We offer professional development for STEM teachers, HSE-focused student workshops and supplemental instruction, Company-sponsored STEM events, clubs, challenges and competitions, and initiatives promoting literacy and numeracy skills for young children. Through the Schlumberger Foundation, we provide funding for women from developing and emerging economies to pursue advanced graduate study in STEM subjects at top universities worldwide. Our community outreach programs are fully aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal #4 of ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all. Schlumberger Excellence In Education Development Our Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) program encourages STEM learning through camps, teacher professional development, workshops, and employee classroom visits. Through SEED, we engage employees, educators, retirees, spouses, and volunteers around the world to share their passion for learning and science with students. This hands-on program focuses on robotics, computer science, and energy education, and relies on the scientific and technological expertise of our workforce, who directly engage with the communities where we live and work. Worldwide, more than 112,000 students attended more than 1,100 SEED activities in 2019. Computer Science To encourage children to develop an interest in computer science, we sponsor workshops and clubs that introduce computer-based programming and coding to students as early as the second grade, using an MIT-based platform called SCRATCH. To provide hands-on training, we also donate resources related to our Petrel* E&P software platform to high schools and universities around the world. Through Schlumberger NeXT, a training and competency solution, we sponsor high school competitions using our OilSim* upstream learning simulator. We have also partnered with Code.org, Microsoft TEALS, and local educational systems to support the professional development of teachers in computer science education. Robotics Our SEED workshops introduce students to the exciting world of robotics, with a special focus on girls and children from developing countries and lower socioeconomic backgrounds. In our workshops, Schlumberger employees and other facilitators, including teachers and local university students, teach the programming, coding and building aspects of robotics. Our employees also discuss with students how Schlumberger engineers use robotics when designing our technology and tools to solve problems for our customers or communities. In addition, we often support schools and communities by sponsoring competitive robotics teams and clubs. Our local operating teams have 2019 SEED BY THE NUMBERS  Number of Engagements1  1,107  Students Impacted  112,967  Teachers Participating   322  Schlumberger Employee Volunteers  1,389  1 Beginning in 2019, we expanded our SEED category to include all our STEM community engagements worldwide, including professional development for STEM teachers, student workshops and supplemental instruction, Company-sponsored STEM events, clubs, challenges and competitions, and initiatives promoting literacy and numeracy skills for young children. * Mark of Schlumberger helped prepare student teams for competitions and encouraged students to explore science and engineering as a college major or career. Energy Education We have formed partnerships with several organizations to develop workshops and educational programs that help students and teachers understand the highly technical skillset needed to work in the energy industry, with a focus on local energy sources. Our partnerships include the American Geosciences Institute, Society of Petroleum Engineers, the Offshore Energy Center, and the Independent Petroleum Association of America. Faculty for the Future Faculty for the Future, the flagship program of the Schlumberger Foundation, awards fellowships to women from developing economies to pursue advanced graduate studies in STEM subjects at leading research institutes abroad. The program’s mission is to accelerate gender equality in STEM and alleviate barriers to women’s participation in STEM disciplines. The program’s commitment to gender parity in science aligns with SDG #4, quality education, and #5, gender equality, in recognition that full access to and participation in STEM fields is essential for the empowerment of women and girls. Since the program’s launch in 2004, a total of 739 women from 82 countries have received Faculty for the Future fellowships to pursue PhD and post-doctorate STEM research programs at 282 universities and research institutions around the world. In 2019, the Schlumberger Foundation awarded 19 new fellowships and renewed 77 fellowships. Faculty for the Future Fellows are expected to return to their home countries upon completion of their studies, in order to contribute to the economic, social and technological advancement of their home regions. Today, Faculty for the Future alumnae are strengthening the STEM teaching and research faculties of their home countries’ institutions, and also serving their communities through their leadership in science-based entrepreneurship and public sector service. In addition to the financial support provided to these women, Faculty for the Future hosts in-person forums where fellows and alumnae meet to share their experiences and help foster an international community of women leaders in STEM. Each grant recipient is offered the opportunity of attending one of these forums during their research program. Participants meet and engage with distinguished scientists and listen to accomplished leaders share their insights. Through knowledge-sharing sessions and panel discussions, participants learn skills and techniques to raise their visibility and improve their chance of successfully impacting their community. In 2019, program leaders visited Pakistan and met with 24 Faculty for the Future alumnae, local universities, research centers, industry partners, and government agencies. The visit helped the Schlumberger Foundation gather information on ways it can help alumnae build on the momentum Faculty for the Future provides and leverage their recently acquired skillsets to bring positive change to their local communities. Furthermore, the visit helped bring recognition to the program and alumnae from their home institutions, government officials and non-government organizations. HSE for Youth Schlumberger is committed to promoting HSE learning for children, in order to pass down our HSE leadership and experience to the next generation of Schlumberger families, customers and communities. Since 2009, our employees have shared their expertise through our HSE for Youth programs, trainings and modules covering first aid, internet safety, injury prevention, climate change, water sanitation, road safety, personal security, and HIV/AIDS, malaria and Ebola prevention. We aim to inform and empower young people to make responsible and safe decisions regarding health, safety, and environmental issues. In 2019, more than 4,300 young people participated in 169 HSE for Youth workshops held across 50 countries. Parents and other volunteers helped organize workshops to teach children how to stay alert, think calmly and act quickly to protect themselves when at home, school or elsewhere in the community. Participants included children of our customers and employees, as well as children from local communities, schools and orphanages. These workshops covered a variety of topics, as shown at right, and have helped thousands of children learn about personal safety. FACULTY FOR THE FUTURE BY THE NUMBERS  New Fellowships Awarded in 2019  19  Fellowships Renewed in 2019  77  Alumnae Home Countries  82  Total Fellows and Alumnae since 2004  739  Host Universities and Research Institutions  282  NUMBER  TOPICS  OF TOPICS  COVERED  Injury Prevention  28  Personal Security  22  Internet Safety  27  Road Safety  53  HIV/AIDS  1  Climate Change/ Environment  5  Water  3  Malaria  13  First Aid  17  Total  169  LOCATION  NUMBER OF WORKSHOPS  Middle East & Asia  41  Africa  34  Europe  21  Russia  16  North America  21  South America  12  Total  145  Health and Safety Schlumberger is committed to maintaining the highest health and safety standards for employees, customers and contractors. Our commitment encompasses health and safety risks in the office and other facilities, such as laboratories and workshops, out in the field, when traveling on Company business, and at home. Our HSE Management System defines the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide, and our management team applies rigorous policies and standards throughout the Company. Nothing is more important to us than ensuring our employees, contractors and customers get home safely to their families at the end of each day. We also have a long-standing commitment to sharing our HSE leadership and best practices through technical papers, active involvement with industry trade associations and specialist HSE organizations, and other means. Keeping our people safe is also central to our ability to drive high performance. We improved on our safety performance in 2019 by decreasing our industry recognized rate of automobile accidents per million miles by 12% and our total recordable incident rate by 26% year-over-year. 2019 was our best year on record in terms of our total recordable incident rate. Health Schlumberger strives to protect the health of its employees and to manage their health risks in the workplace. To reduce work-related and location-specific health risks, Schlumberger promotes industrial hygiene, ergonomics, a healthy lifestyle, and preventive medicine. Good health management helps to reduce illness in the workplace, increase employee and family well-being, and streamline health care costs for employees and the Company. It also helps increase customer retention and satisfaction, optimize business performance and the Company’s reputation, and reduce project disruptions while protecting the health of those involved. We have a global network of health professionals who provide medical support at our operational locations. Each of our operating locations has a specific preventive training program with a focus on health and industrial hygiene, and each program is adapted to the working environment and location. Before new operations begin, and regularly thereafter, employees undergo medical checks and health-risk assessments. Heart Healthy Campaigns Schlumberger has been supporting the American Heart Association through the Houston Heart Walk for eight consecutive years. In 2019, more than 200 Houston-area employees and family members joined the walk to raise awareness about the benefits of exercise. Part of our global Heart Healthy campaign included providing temporary CPR training kiosks at Schlumberger facilities to teach employees what to do in case of a heart attack and raise awareness of cardiovascular risk factors. The kiosks included a “how to” video along with a practice mannequin, like those used in classroom CPR training sessions, so employees and their family members could practice the movements and pressure needed to correctly perform CPR. Also in 2019, Schlumberger team members in Sub-Sahara Africa launched the Africa Heart Beat campaign to increase health awareness among our workforce in the region. More than 1,200 people participated in running and walking activities as part of this initiative, and collectively they covered a distance of approximately 7,000 km. Schlumberger Active Campaigns Since 2018, Schlumberger has initiated a series of health campaigns to encourage employees to be more physically active. Our first Active campaign in Europe drove active participation with Company-sponsored events, and encouraged employees in Europe to track and share their fitness-related activities through an internal Schlumberger app. The app includes a leader board with recognition badges to incentivize employee engagement through friendly and healthy competition. Employees were also encouraged to share stories and pictures of their activities on an internal social networking platform. The success of the Active campaign in Europe inspired similar campaigns at Schlumberger locations around the globe, including in Central America, East Asia, Australia, South East Asia, North America, South America, North Africa, Sub-Sahara Africa, and the Middle East. The app has been replicated across more than 60 countries across all continents. In the Far East region, the Active campaign achieved 35 million steps in 2019. In the Russia and Central Asia region, Schlumberger team members recorded 121 million steps and burned approximately 1.4 million calories. In Bahrain, employees participated in a relay marathon. In Scandinavia, teams  participated in an eight-week competitive fitness challenge. Although the Active campaigns were primarily focused on health, they also encouraged our personnel to be more actively engaged in all aspects of HSE. The use of innovative technology solutions has encouraged personnel to access other HSE-related apps more actively, and the teamwork aspects of these campaigns have led to a healthy competition between Schlumberger locations regarding other aspects of HSE. Safety Shared Responsibility for Safety Schlumberger maintains a safe and productive work environment free from alcohol, controlled substances, and illegal drugs. We design our equipment and workplaces to enable safe operations and we provide comprehensive training in injury prevention, driving safety, hazard identification, and risk assessment and management. We require comprehensive reporting of hazardous situations and conditions to identify opportunities for improvement and remedial actions to prevent recurrence. Within Schlumberger, all employees and contractors are authorized, empowered and required to intervene and stop any job if they consider a situation to be unsafe—a practice fully supported by Company management. HSE Management System The Schlumberger HSE Management System sets forth the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide regarding HSE and security. Schlumberger management communicates our global quality, health, safety and environment (QHSE) policy, as well as our HSE philosophy, priorities, objectives and requirements, to all employees, customers, contractors, and third parties associated with our business.  Our global HSE standards are implemented in all our operations and comprehensively assessed to assure compliance. We require that each Schlumberger geographic and operational business unit and function provide positive evidence of conformance to our HSE Management System. Our HSE Management System model comprises eight interrelated elements, reflected on the diagram below. We work to continually improve upon our HSE outcomes through (i) regular conformance checks on day-to-day standards and procedures (referred to in the diagram at left as “control”); (ii) conformance checks on the management system as a whole (referred to in the diagram at left as “correction”), and (iii) as needed, appropriate modifications to the management system (referred to in the diagram at left as “improvement”). As of September 2020, our HSE Management System comprised 26 global standards, which we require be implemented within all Schlumberger operations and facilities, regardless of whether a particular operating location or facility has chosen to commit to third-party certification, such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), American Petroleum Institute (API), or Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) standards. Schlumberger’s HSE Management System uses a risk-based approach, which allows us to focus resources on the geographic locations, activities and services that present a higher risk to the Company, our personnel and our customers. Our risk-based strategy also enables us to develop focused, concise HSE standards that are easily read, understood and monitored for effectiveness and compliance. Each risk-based HSE standard contains the following items: » A statement of intent » The objective of the standard » A scope of application » Requirements for implementation of controls » Clear statements of responsibility for the management of the subject matter » Performance monitoring criteria for performance and compliance Our risk-based approach involves setting prescribed control measures that apply at all Schlumberger sites and to all of our activities and employees, as well as to contractors under our operational control.  Schlumberger’s HSE function has developed specific strategies for our risk-based HSE standards, covering both the fundamental controls that apply globally throughout all Company activities without variation, and certain risk-based controls—assessed by country, business operation and location—where application increases proportionally with the assessed risk. At the global level, each Schlumberger HSE standard has an assigned “owner” who is responsible for developing and monitoring the standard, and for ensuring that it is regularly updated to reflect the Company’s commitment to continuous improvement, industry best practices, and lessons learned. Each year, Schlumberger holds a global meeting of the senior HSE managers in our geographic locations and senior corporate HSE personnel, in order to review the Schlumberger HSE standards as well as emerging regulatory changes to reflect both internal and external updated HSE best practices. This annual HSE management review is focused on identifying opportunities for improvement both in our HSE Management System and in HSE performance. We also set annual performance and improvement objectives (including leading and lagging performance indicators), review existing HSE standards, and develop new HSE standards, personnel engagement initiatives, and campaigns for the year. In 2019, we revised the following global HSE Standards: Business Continuity, Crisis and Emergency Management; HSE Training; Auditing; Hydrogen Sulfide; Personal Protective Equipment; Environmental Management; Schlumberger Empowerment Teams; and Injury Prevention. We also issued a new Electrical Safety Standard in 2019. Leadership Commitment Foundational to the Schlumberger HSE Management System is a commitment by our leadership team to invest in and promote HSE initiatives, programs and the system as a whole, and to personally demonstrate HSE excellence. Managers at all levels of the Company are responsible for maintaining a culture of HSE excellence, so that all employees see prevention of HSE incidents and accidental losses as an integral part of their daily activities. We expect all managers and supervisors to set a personal example of HSE excellence by actively contributing to HSE risk management, including by providing necessary resources to develop and maintain a proactive HSE Management System throughout the organization. We also expect Schlumberger managers to encourage the involvement of all employees and to empower them to develop and implement appropriate solutions to HSE issues within their areas of responsibility. Below are some examples of manager involvement in HSE, as applicable based on area of responsibility: » Participating in HSE meetings » Periodically visiting the field » Keeping personal HSE training up to date » Leading HSE audits, inspections and assessments, and following up on the remedial action plans » Setting location and personal HSE objectives. » Reviewing performance indicators » Reviewing HSE reports and following up on the closure of action items » Participating in and reviewing investigation of accidents » Administering reward programs » Reviewing driving performance reports At Schlumberger, each geographical area has a dedicated HSE manager, HSE training and communications coordinator and injury prevention coordinator, along with a team of additional HSE personnel to support their operations. These regional teams are supported by a core group of HSE subject matter experts at the corporate level. In addition, in some cases subject matter experts are based within certain geographical areas depending on the risk and exposure to HSE hazards, such as security specialists, driving coordinators and health professionals. At the site level, personnel with specific subject matter roles may facilitate and support the technical implementation of our HSE standards, depending on the size, specific risks and operational requirements of the site. A few such examples include roles focused on mechanical lifting, dropped objects, and working at height responsibilities. Within Schlumberger, all employees and contractors are authorized, empowered and required to intervene and stop any job if they consider a situation to be unsafe—a practice fully supported by Company management. Schlumberger SAFE Our Schlumberger SAFE program encompasses a series of strategic HSE programs, tools and multi-year initiatives that reinforce our unified, global approach to our organization’s HSE commitment. We designed this program based on the four pillars of our global HSE strategy: Leadership, Employee Engagement, Training and Reporting, and Compliance. Since the program’s launch in 2017, we have focused on making our HSE emphasis personal, engaging and fun through innovative training and communication methodologies. The first two years of this campaign have already delivered meaningful results, including helping to reduce the frequency of total recordable injuries and automotive accidents, as well as other improve.ments in leading HSE indicators. Examples of Schlumberger SAFE initiatives include: » personal HSE leading indicator dashboards and scorecards with metrics such as proactive HSE reporting, HSE leadership engagements and field HSE visits; » global safety improvement campaigns that use innovative communication techniques, such as internal social media channels, infographics and personal interactions based on a facilitated learner-centered approach; » the development of Company mobile apps for proactive HSE risk identification reporting and observation and intervention reporting; » revitalized HSE training for new personnel, supervisors and managers that uses a variety of modern learning techniques; and » the implementation of improved processes for monitoring and increasing compliance with Company requirements. In addition, our Schlumberger SAFE Forum, launched in 2018, introduces supervisors and managers to our latest HSE programs and campaigns through a set of interactive exhibits that can be easily assembled at any Schlumberger location. For remote locations, we have also deployed a truck outfitted with a mobile version of the Schlumberger SAFE Forum to give personnel working in field locations the opportunity to experience in person our latest Company HSE initiatives. In 2019, 39 Schlumberger SAFE Forums were organized to assist supervisors and managers in increasing HSE awareness and engagement at local facilities around the globe. We also have a wide range of recognition programs based on the Schlumberger SAFE campaigns for individuals, teams, locations, and geographic initiatives and improvements. For example, in 2019, our global HSE function won our Performed by Schlumberger program’s “CEO Award” for the Schlumberger SAFE Campaign, out of almost 600 project submissions. The CEO Award is the program’s highest accolade, given to a team or project that demonstrates exceptional levels of teamwork, innovation and business impact for the Company and our customers. Schlumberger personnel around the globe cast their votes, selecting the top four submissions for the awards. Life-Saving Rules In 2019, Schlumberger launched a 10-week global campaign to introduce the revised International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) Life-Saving Rules, which updated the 2010 IOGP Life-Saving Rules. Schlumberger actively participated in developing both sets of IOGP Life-Saving Rules. From our CEO and executive leadership to our frontline workforce, we are committed to the IOGP Life-Saving Rules and to achieving and sustaining the industry goal of having no fatalities. As part of our 2019 campaign, Schlumberger CEO Olivier Le Peuch and our HSE management team recorded personal videos covering four key messages: » Schlumberger fully supports this standardized industry initiative. » We are fully committed to reducing the number of work-related fatalities to zero. » Every employee and contractor is empowered and, in fact, obligated to “stop the job” if they see any Life-Saving Rule not being followed (or any other unsafe act). Anyone who intervenes will have the full support of Company leadership. » Compliance with the Life-Saving Rules is not just about Company requirements. Compliance is about making sure you go home safe to your loved ones. The campaign then introduced one new rule each week for the following nine weeks. This approach gave our workforce time to focus and reflect on the content and expectations of each new rule. For each new rule, a senior Schlumberger leader recorded a video discussing the importance of the rule, along with examples of incidents and high potential events, and explained how the relevant Life-Saving Rule and associated actions could have prevented or did prevent the loss of a life. All non-office personnel are required to complete IOGP Life-Saving Rules training and, in 2019, this totaled over 72,000 field personnel worldwide. Schlumberger’s Life-Saving Rules training materials were targeted to frontline workers and made available in local languages. In addition, in alignment with SDG #17, partnerships for the goals, we translated IOGP’s training and communication materials, such as work cards, posters, and rule-in-a-minute animations, into 17 languages, and then provided the translated content to IOGP to be shared across the industry as part of our commitment to partnerships. The Life-Saving Rules have also been incorporated into our new employee and new contractor safety training packages, and an e-learning package is available for refresher training. Schlumberger also analyzed the applicability of the nine Life-Saving Rules for our global operations using Schlumberger-specific data over a 10-year period. We conducted a detailed analysis of work-related fatalities, high potential events and lost workday case injuries to identify those that most commonly resulted in fatalities. A ratio of fatalities to lost workday cases showed trends similar to the IOGP data used to develop the industry Life-Saving Rules. HSE Auditing In 2019, Schlumberger implemented a global risk-based approach and improvements to our HSE auditing and inspections process. We revised all the global templates used to audit compliance against our HSE standards and we required that an audit and inspection plan be developed and documented each year. This annual plan details the schedule of audits and inspections to be performed at each worksite and the respective areas of responsibility during the year. We use a global online dashboard to review the results of the plan’s implementation and to monitor the completion and compliance of audits and inspections. In 2019, we recorded more than 260,500 audits and inspections in Schlumberger’s global online QHSE business system. More than 20,000 of these were audits conducted using our global compliance audit templates, which have been developed to determine adherence to our QHSE standards. Our robust internal auditing and inspection process has been rigorously implemented, and its performance equals or exceeds that of a third-party certified HSE management system.  Operational locations seek certification to international standards, such as ISO, API or OHSAS, only where there is a clear business case to do so. Fatalities Regretfully, Schlumberger suffered three work-related fatalities in 2019. Schlumberger’s 2019 fatal accident rate for employees and contractors was 0.75 per 100 million work hours, which was lower than the 2019 IOGP contractor fatal accident rate of 0.92 per 100 million work hours. Each of our work-related fatalities was thoroughly investigated and studied, remedial actions were implemented to prevent reoccurrence, and the associated lessons learned were communicated throughout the Company. For example, to address the lessons learned from electrocution incidents and incorporate additional controls, Schlumberger issued a new global Electrical Safety Standard in 2019. Schlumberger also issued new standard work instructions for activities requiring energy isolation verification, deployed additional testing equipment to field personnel, and included further electrical safety training in the requirements for technicians. We also discussed these fatality incidents in our executive leadership videos as part of the IOGP Life-Saving Rules campaign. No work-related illness fatalities occurred at Schlumberger in 2019. Schlumberger also tracks employees’ non-occupational illness fatalities, such as deaths due to heart disease and cancer, in our global online QHSE business system. These data inform our global and regional health and wellbeing campaigns. Learning from Events Schlumberger’s global HSE Event Reporting and Management Standard details our requirements for the notification, recording and investigation of HSE incidents and high potential events, including management reviews, remedial and preventative work plan actions, and follow-up actions to confirm effective implementation. We use our global online QHSE business system to manage the lifecycle of an event, from classification to investigation to remedial action implementation. During 2019, more than 142,000 people used the system, with over 12.7 million logins registered. The system also recorded an average of 1,400 QHSE meetings per day in 2019, totaling more than 511,000 for the year, sent more than 40 million emails to approximately 125 million email recipients, and processed more than 3.8 million items including risk identification reports, meetings, audits, exemptions, management of change requests, observations, inspections, events, suggestions, and recognitions. Our personnel can search and review two decades worth of reports and data in our QHSE business system. This yields significant opportunities for learning from events and trends, for benchmarking, and for the identification of emerging hazards. Schlumberger also has a process to generate concise “HSE Alerts” to share best practices and lessons learned from HSE events. HSE Alerts are stored in Schlumberger’s HSE Communications Toolbox and are organized by hazard category such as Life-Saving Rule, Product Line and Geography, to help users identify relevant subject matter for organizational learning. HSE Alerts are also sent directly to employees by email. HSE Alerts that we receive from customers and industry organizations are also shared on our internal HSE web portal and on internal social media groups for general HSE, subject matter or location-specific updates, to which anyone in the organization can subscribe. These lessons learned and best practices are incorporated into our HSE Standards, policies, practices and training resources. Our goal is to promote continuous HSE learning and best practices throughout the organization, and to facilitate reflective discussions at both formal safety meetings and in informal discussions among our team members, such as during pre-job safety briefings. Security Management Due to the nature of our global business and operations, Schlumberger maintains a focus on managing security for our personnel and assets. Our employees, their families, contractors, third parties, and our company assets may be exposed to security-related threats, including armed conflict, criminality and civil unrest. Our objective is to reduce security risks to a level deemed “as low as reasonably practicable” through effective implementation of fundamental and risk-based controls and active continuous monitoring of security conditions. Schlumberger security specialists—both employees and contractors under our operational control—are required to maintain security arrangements that are consistent with applicable laws and the following international standards: » Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights » United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights » United Nations Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials » United Nations Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms PRE-TRAVEL SECURITY AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS Schlumberger’s online QHSE business system serves as a repository for country-specific health and security information, including the Company’s security risk ratings for countries and regions within countries. Prior to traveling for business reasons, Schlumberger personnel are required to review applicable security and health information for their destination country and, for high-risk destinations, have their travel approved. Our travel booking system automatically sends emails with travel advice, relevant security, health and cultural information, local Schlumberger emergency contact numbers, and national authority emergency information. Control measures for Schlumberger personnel—proportionate to the country security threat and/or alert level—may include travel security guidance or precautions, security escorts upon arrival in a country or region, and the use of Company-approved accommodations (e.g., staff houses or hotels with adequate security standards). Health specific requirements for travel may include certain vaccinations and certificates, preventive medication, and training on disease prevention (such as malaria protection controls like bed nets, repellents and testing kits), water and food hygiene, animal bite and sting prevention, other immediate response actions, climate-related hazards, and medical emergency management. Business Continuity, Emergency and Crisis Management Each Schlumberger location has comprehensive emergency response plans and trained personnel to respond to anticipated local emergency scenarios such as emergency evacuation, fire, medical emergency response, security threat response, spill response, natural disasters, and other specific operational hazards such as hazardous substances, hydrogen sulfide releases and well control incidents. More than 5,000 location emergency response drills were held and recorded in the global online QHSE business system in 2019. Also in 2019, Schlumberger released a comprehensive revision to its global Business Continuity, Emergency and Crisis Management Standard. Although the Company’s global standard has been in place for more than 20 years, in 2019 we adopted a risk-based approach and incorporated research from the Harvard School of Public Health’s National Preparedness Leadership Initiatives and meta-leadership programs, as described in the Harvard Business Review. In revising this standard, we developed a global hierarchy of crisis and emergency management and response teams in order to effectively respond to developing crisis events and to protect our people, assets and ability to operate, as well as the environment, stakeholders’ interests and Schlumberger’s reputation. This program is based on our fundamental corporate commitment to the Company’s HSE function as a core differentiating competency. Each of the crisis management teams (CMTs) and emergency management teams (EMTs) comprise nine core members, primarily representing Schlumberger business functions:  » Crisis management team leader  » Legal counsel  » Crisis management coordinator  » IT services  » Communications coordinator  » Facilities  » Stakeholder manager  » Finance  » Human resources  Designated emergency and crisis management centers are suitably equipped and maintained in geographically dispersed locations This makes technical subject matter expertise continually available to the geographic CMTs and EMTs via business line global operations control centers. To support our crisis, emergency and business continuity management process, we have implemented standardized Company tools and guidance across the organization. Examples of such tools include: » A global online risk mapping tool with geographically conducted vulnerability assessments that include the identification of threats to each business line, function and manufacturing center. » A comprehensive global reference manual and an online library of available resources, such as notification and response flowcharts, checklists and drill scenarios, as well as best practices, which are regularly updated based on lessons learned from Company responses to drills and real crisis situations. » Designated trained CMTs and crisis management planning at both corporate and geographic area levels, as well as designated trained EMTs and emergency management planning in every country of operation, all of which follow a company-wide crisis and emergency management playbook. » An Incident Response app that links to our global crisis management online portal, in order to maintain real-time communications throughout each response cycle by recording decisions, actions, and stakeholder maps. » Emergency situation identification, vulnerability assessment, and response planning for every Company location, using global tools to maintain consistent assessment of the threats, internal and external resource capability analysis, and plans for control and mitigation of emergency situations. » Communication tools, including mass e-mail distributions, text message alerts with receipt confirmation, news and updates on our Company intranet and internal social media channels, 24-hour emergency call centers, and standard IT tools for managing and documenting actions taken and interactions with stakeholders. » Business impact analysis and continuity planning assessment tools, templates and guidance, covering (among other things) anticipated business disruptions. We also annually conduct a global-level review of our consolidated geographic, functional and business line risks to check for correlations and trends, and report the same to our executive management. For additional details, please see the Corporate Governance section of this report titled “Managing Corporate Risk” on page 5. In 2019, we continued implementing our crisis management training programs throughout the organization. Approximately 300 senior leaders around the world attended a two-day crisis or emergency management team training course during the year. These training courses enable attendees to participate in practical exercises combining crisis manage.ment best practices, techniques from global academic experts, and expertise from within the Company. Our comprehensive trainings incorporate realistic scenarios, so that theoretical training is successfully translated into practical skills. Our initial trainings are also supplemented with refresher trainings and regional readiness assessments. We also conduct regular crisis and emergency management drills— quarterly at the country level, bi-annually at the geographic area level, and annually at the corporate level—in order to practice coordinating people, organizations, resources, and information to best mitigate and control a wide range of scenarios, from our initial response through reestablishing operations. In 2019, we conducted a series of cybersecurity drills in addition to operational drill scenarios. Contractor Management An effective and efficient supply chain is essential to Schlumberger’s success. Our overall objective is to maximize value for the Company through best-in-class planning, sourcing and procurement, achieved through the rigorous use of systematic and integrated processes to select, develop and manage our supplier base. We work with our suppliers in a socially responsible and ethical manner and continuously seek to improve the way we and our suppliers conduct business. Contractor Management Standard In 2018, we revised our Contractor Management Standard to align with the IOGP industry best practices for managing HSE risks from contracted services. In addition, our Supply Chain standards and procedures govern how we engage with suppliers and contractors, and we use industry best practices as the global basis for managing the HSE risks from contracted services. Together, these standards set forth a risk-based process to identify, onboard and manage suitably capable contractors. After completing our supplier approval processes, we add newly approved suppliers (including suppliers of contracted services) to a central approved supplier list, which contains information about each supplier, including capability assessments, specific audits, contractual responsibilities (contract mode), and the scope of work that such supplier is qualified to provide to Schlumberger. Our approved supplier list contained more than 44,000 approved suppliers with whom Schlumberger had a spend in 2019. Contractor Performance Management Schlumberger monitors the HSE performance of its contractors during all phases of our contracts, using various methods: » We report any hazardous situation (including any “near miss”) and take actions where necessary to correct the situation relating to the contracted service. » We report at-risk behaviors and immediately provide coaching to contractors to correct such behaviors. » We positively report and reinforce safe behaviors. » We regularly hold formal meetings with the management of suppliers that provide us services, to discuss the supplier’s performance and agree on any actions needed for continuous service improvement. We also hold informal meetings with these service providers. In total, we recorded more than 27,500 meetings with service providers and contractors in our QHSE online business system in 2019. During 2019, more than 38,000 contractors contributed to Schlumberger’s overall safety performance. Our contractor Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) was 0.50 per million work hours, consistent with our combined employee and contractor LTIFR of 0.52 per million work hours. As of December 2019, more than 13,500 contractors were registered to use Schlumberger’s global online QHSE business system. Our contractors are required to follow all Schlumberger HSE programs while at a Schlumberger controlled facility, unless they have an equivalent HSE program with roles and responsibilities defined in an agreement with us. Contractor Audits In 2019, Schlumberger recorded 1,291 contractor audits in our global QHSE business system. In addition, we conducted 353 land transport contractor audits in alignment with the IOGP industry best practice for land transport contractor assessments (IOGP Report 365). Contractor Training New Schlumberger contactors engaged in 2019 completed nearly 127,000 certifications that year. Applicable contractors are included in our New Employee Safety Training (NEST) program, which provides critical safety training in order to manage new employees’ increased HSE risks. We also have specific NEST trainings for short-term contracted employees. For additional details about our HSE training programs, please see the section of this report titled “HSE Training” on page 33. Injury Prevention Schlumberger is committed to injury prevention for employees and contractors through effective implementation of internal best practices as well as those from the oil and gas industry. In 2019, we updated our risk-based Injury Prevention Standard, which details the controls required to minimize risk of workplace injuries related to stepping, handling, manual lifting, and working with machinery, equipment and tools. This revision incorporated the new IOGP Life-Saving Rules, as well as updates to our injury prevention training and additional content on the Company’s Design for HSE program. Schlumberger’s work-related workplace total recordable injuries (TRI) and lost-time injuries (LTI) by hazard category for 2019 are shown in the charts below: Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) by Hazard Category (2019) 57% 21% Stepping, Machinery, equipment handling, lifting and hand tools and falling 7% Mechanical lifting related 4%11% Dropped objects Other Lost Time Injuries (LTI) by Hazard Category (2019) 58% 18% Stepping, Machinery, equipment handling, lifting and hand tools and falling 9% Mechanical lifting related 5% 10% Dropped objects Other The charts below reflect our 2019 TRI and LTI by body part injured: Total Recordable Injuries by Body Part (2019) 51% Finger, Hand & Arm  22% Leg, Feet & Toes  11% Head  6% Other  10% Torso  Lost Time Injuries by Body Part (2019) 50% 27% Finger, Hand Leg, Feet & Arm & Toes 10% Head 4% Torso Other We provide injury prevention training to new employees within the first month of employment, along with annual refresher coaching supported by 363 trainers and 31 master trainers around the globe. In 2019, more than 93,000 employees and contractors were certified at Level 1 training and more than 63,000 were certified at Level 2 training (accompanied by a Commentary Task Assessment conducted by a trained coach). We have also implemented our Schlumberger “Warm Up to Work” program globally across the Company. Warm Up To Work was designed to improve the health and wellbeing of our workforce and increase awareness about the importance of injury prevention at the workplace. This program includes exercises for workshop and field personnel to warm up their muscles and increase flexibility and the range of motion of joints. For office personnel, it includes a series of stretching exercises help to prevent neck, shoulder, and back discomfort. The program also has an interactive website with short videos that show how to perform the exercises correctly, as well as other resources available in nine languages. As shown in the charts at left, approximately half of our 2019 TRI and LTI involved injuries to fingers, hands and arms. To address these types of injuries, we have identified various hands-free work aids to reduce direct exposure to these body parts, and then implemented them worldwide. To mitigate the severity of hand and finger injuries, we regularly review improvements in high impact glove technology, and we incorporate pilot testing of new types of gloves to improve the level of protection, fit and comfort. Communication programs and initiatives promoting hand and finger safety continue to be a focus area for our global injury prevention campaigns and local initiatives, such as the “1,2,3 por tus manos” (1,2,3 for your hands) program in the Latin America North area. Mechanical Lifting and Dropped Objects Both the Company and the oil and gas industry as a whole recognize mechanical lifting and dropped objects as posing risks for fatalities and serious injuries. As a result, we investigate and review all incidents involving any injury as well as high-potential events with or without any injury. We share lessons learned internally using our HSE Alert process and incorporate them into our applicable Company standards, trainings and HSE communication resources. In 2019, mechanical lifting-related injuries accounted for 7% of our TRI, of which 45% involved forklifts or their loads and 44% involved cranes or their loads. Dropped objects related to 4% of our 2019 TRI. Of the combined TRI for mechanical lifting and dropped objects, 47% of injuries involved hands, arms and fingers, and 31% involved legs, feet and toes. In 2019, Schlumberger personnel entered nearly 196,000 proactive risk identification reports relating to mechanical lifting and dropped objects into our global online QHSE business system, a 15% increase year-over.year. We continue to focus on effective management of dynamic dropped objects and DROPS Red Zones, proactive risk identification reporting, and the implementation of hands-free lifting techniques and tools. Mechanical lifting operations on rig sites often involve multiple parties, particularly during rig-up, rig-down and rig-move activities. Maintaining adequate control of operations on rig sites is a key focus for Schlumberger, because rig sites account for proportionately higher rates of mechanical lifting incidents involving injuries in comparison to other working environments. From 2015 through 2019, approximately 30% of Company-involved work-related recordable injuries at mechanical lifting incidents occurred at rig sites (onshore and offshore).The Schlumberger Mechanical Lifting Standard sets forth various control measures to designate and delineate the parties’ responsibilities, including a Company-designated lifting crew for any operation that involves the use of a mobile crane. The lifting crew comprises a person in charge, an appliance operator, and a banksman/slinger or signaler, and all crew members are required to be deemed competent and appropriately trained for their roles. Another of key injury prevention focus for Schlumberger relates to contractors that supply us with mechanical lifting services and/or equipment. From 2015 through 2019, approximately 30% of the Company’s mechanical lifting-related recordable injuries involved contractors. Our Mechanical Lifting Standard (in accordance with our Contractor Management Standard) requires that all contractors involved in mechanical lifting activities be audited prior to on-boarding. Our site and country mechanical lifting experts participate in these contractor audits to confirm that contracted equipment and services meet both Schlumberger requirements and any applicable regulatory requirements. In 2019, we also launched or continued various global awareness campaigns focused preventing injuries during mechanical lifting operations, which covered mitigation measures such as: » Avoiding being in the “line of fire” » Loading and unloading of vehicles » Managing areas where personnel may be exposed to dropped object hazards (referred to as DROPS Red Zones) » Using barriers » Inspecting slings, and rigging and slinging practices » Using hands-free lifting tools » Using high impact gloves We also supplemented our global safety awareness campaigns with regional initiatives, such as our “Forklift Blind-spot” awareness campaign in Europe, “SAFE Forklift in Action” campaign in Latin America, and land transport load and cargo securing campaign in North Africa. Driving Safety  Road traffic incidents are ranked by the World Health Organization among the top ten causes of fatalities worldwide, and reports from the IOGP indicate that driving-related incidents have historically been a significant cause of fatalities in upstream operations. In 2019, 4% of our TRI and LTI were associated with land transport activities. In 2019, our driving safety focus continued to be on journey management, the implementation of new technologies to improve driver performance, and driver training. Our comprehensive driver management system consolidates best practices to systematically reduce or eliminate accidents through training, journey and trip management, safe driving behavior, and compliance with Our Code of Conduct. Our risk-based approach provides effective management of driving activities in the countries where we operate. Journey Management and Data Analytics Our Journey Management Centers around the world reinforce safe driving behaviors and deliver increased support for our drivers during each journey. The centers verify each trip for compliance with our journey management procedures, with higher risk driving environments being subject to more stringent controls and standards. These centers serve every country in which we operate with real-time journey tracking in 15 languages, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Through these centers, we monitor driving behavior using real-time tracking and provide immediate feedback to our drivers. The centers use data analytics to define, measure and shape driving behaviors, and to develop initiatives that help our drivers continuously improve their performance. For example, we have designed and deployed an algorithm to analyze driving data in North America, together with an internal website to provide drivers and managers with real-time continuous feedback of any instance of non-conformance with our journey management protocols. The website provides an easily accessible interface to translate the driving data we have collected into actionable information to sustain continuous improvement. In 2019, we analyzed more than 9,000 business trips per weekday, totaling approximately 2.9 million trips across North America during the year. Deployment of this algorithm has shown up to a 96% reduction in journey management non-conformances and a 73% reduction in mileage driven by unidentified drivers since we introduced this initiative. New Technology to Improve Driving Safety  We analyze global event data to identify, develop and implement targeted innovative solutions to improve driving safety through driver engagement and vehicle enhancements. Our driving performance app utilizes sensors in the driver’s mobile device to enable the recognition of vehicle movement. Drivers are provided with a customized dashboard and immediate feedback on their driving performance to identify personalized areas of improvement. This app is easy to deploy, promoting driver engagement with immediate in-vehicle feedback to increase personal awareness of driving performance and identify any hazardous behaviors. The app has been deployed for use by our employees and contractors and, on request, it has been extended to include Schlumberger family members. Another technology implemented to improve driving performance on Schlumberger-owned vehicles is an advanced driver-assistance system (ADAS). This technology enhances vehicle safety systems and reduces human error by alerting the driver to maximum speed limits and lane departures, as well as the proximity of pedestrians and other vehicles to prevent collisions. Feedback from Schlumberger drivers on these driver aid systems has been positive overall. Even where these technologies provide drivers with just a few more seconds of reaction time, their earlier awareness of potential hazards allows drivers to quickly react to prevent collisions and potentially save lives. Driver Training Every Schlumberger driver, from field to office, is required to complete regular fit-for-purpose driver training, including the use of simulators and driver-improvement monitors to provide real-time, in-vehicle driving performance feedback. Personnel who drive on Company business receive both practical and theoretical training from qualified and skilled master trainers. At just one facility in the United States, Company drivers completed the equivalent of 261,000 driving training hours in 2019. Across all our driving training facilities, we incorporate scenarios designed to provide trainees with advanced skills, such skid pan, emergency steering, head-on collision avoidance, and off-road recovery. Driving simulators also allow drivers to practice their skills on a variety of road types facing different climatic and environmental conditions, in a safe and controlled manner. We reinforce this regular training on an annual basis with a “commentary drive,” where a trained assessor reviews and assesses each driver’s skills on public roads, as part of our ongoing driver training certification requirements. In 2019, Schlumberger had more than 45,300 certified drivers globally. Below are examples of the various training courses provided at Schlumberger’s dedicated training centers. STANDARD TRAINING  COURSE DURATION  CANDIDATE  Light Vehicle Training  3 days  Drivers of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of less than 10,001 lb (also called “light vehicles”)  Medium Vehicle Training  6 days  Drivers of truck and trailer combination vehicles with a GVWR of 10,001 lb to 26,000 lb  Heavy Vehicle Straight  6 days  Drivers of straight truck vehicles with a GVWR exceeding 26,000 lb  Heavy Vehicle Training  11 days  Drivers of tractor and trailer vehicles with a GVWR exceeding 26,000 lb  Driver Assessor School  5 days  Experienced drivers who will be performing driver assessments and in-vehicle skills development and teaching techniques and conflict resolution  Driver Trainer Assessor School–Light  3 days  Assessors who will be teaching driving theory in a classroom setting  Driver Theory  8 hours  All Schlumberger drivers are required to complete driver theory and advanced skills maneuvers theory training  Driver Intensive  5 days  Light vehicle drivers who require additional development of in-vehicle skills  Driver Training Simulators Hands-on sessions with qualified instructors allow Schlumberger drivers to learn and apply practical skills in customized vehicles within the controlled setting of the driving training centers. We also use driver training simulators with multiple vehicle profiles including light, heavy articulated and non-articulated vehicles to enable drivers to practice their basic and advanced skills in a safe environment. The simulators provide drivers with the experience of a variety of driving environments, such as suburban, freeway, mountain, snow, ice and rain, the ability to practice a wide range of skills appropriate to minimizing driving hazards, including collision avoidance and skid control.  Driving Performance Recognition In 2020, Schlumberger won the Egypt Petroleum Show’s HSE Excellence in Energy Award for “Best Health and Safety Project of the Year,” for our work done in 2019 to modernize driving safety in Egypt through the use of technology. This program involved implementing technology and innovative training with virtual commentary drive skills assessments for Company drivers, engagement with land transport contractors and key stakeholders, and road safety instruction for children. Schlumberger also has an internal program to recognize and reward Company drivers for high performance. Driving performance is also recognized geographically based on the performance of top drivers using data recorded in Schlumberger’s driving app. Schlumberger Empowerment Teams Schlumberger Empowerment Teams (SETs) are action-oriented teams implemented to identify, eliminate or reduce workplace risk at the location level. The teams bring together local employees, line management and HSE professionals in a cooperative effort to strengthen personnel engagement with, and improvement of, HSE performance, by focusing on local initiatives. All Company locations are covered by a SET, and each location with more than 50 assigned people is required to have its own dedicated SET. Each SET has an assigned leader and six to 15 members, depending on the number of personnel at the location, and comprises a cross-section of our workforce with representation from our business lines and functions, as well as various levels of seniority and authority. SET membership is also required in Schlumberger’s career development program for non-HSE disciplines. Each member of a SET focuses on one of three areas at a time—engagement, situational insight or compliance—and then rotates focus areas every four months so that all SET members develop skills in all three focus areas. SET leaders also receive additional training in HSE and facilitation techniques. In 2019, we had more than 4,000 active SET members across 58 countries, representing 4% of our total employee population and 3% of our total workforce (employees and contractors). In 2019, we recorded more than 6,500 SET meetings in our global QHSE online business system. The SETs identify location-specific HSE issues, provide solutions and best practices, and assist with the implementation of company-wide HSE recognition programs. For example, the global SET network was critical to the successful roll-out of our Life-Saving Rules campaign in 2019. Each SET also develops an annual improvement plan with specific HSE improvement objectives and a budget to support the implementation of its activities for the location. Local SETs have implemented a variety of initiatives and projects related to driving, environment, health, injury prevention, security, communications, and family and community outreach. Schlumberger recognizes SET achievements through a global award program, with awards for the best SET, best SET leader, and special categories such as injury prevention, driving, security, environment, and health initiatives. The initiatives were judged on criteria such as innovation and improvement impact. HSE Training We manage, monitor and record the HSE online training certifications of all Schlumberger employees and more than 13,500 contractors via our global online QHSE business system. In 2019: » The system recorded more than 4 million online certifications and logged more than 6.5 million training hours, averaging approximately 46 hours of training per individual. » Worldwide, more than 470 certified trainers of our New Employee Safety Training (NEST) program conducted more than 1,100 NEST classes, providing training to approximately 16,700 employees and contractors. » More than 950 Schlumberger managers and approximately 4,500 supervisors attended one of our 424 facilitated two-day HSE leadership training courses. » An additional 300 personnel were trained in HSE event investigation and more than 600 were trained in HSE auditing. » Nearly 700 HSE specialists and SET leaders were trained in facilitation techniques. New Employee Safety Training A significant proportion of injuries in the oil and gas industry involve personnel with less than one year of service within a company. At Schlumberger, an internal study of historical injury data showed that more than half of our work-related injuries involved employees and contractors with one year of seniority or less. As a result, we identified NEST as a key area of opportunity for improvement in safety performance. All new Schlumberger employees and contractors working under our direct supervision are required to complete NEST courses covering key HSE topics. NEST uses a blend of innovative learner-centered educational methodologies to empower new personnel to take ownership of their safety performance, by equipping them with a clear understanding of the control measures and mindset required to conduct their work activities safely. NEST uses trained facilitators and incorporates innovative technologies, such as virtual reality, micro-learning videos and mobile apps and gamification, in order to support some of the key training modules and cater to millennial preferred learning styles.  Leadership Training In 2018, we redesigned our HSE leadership training curriculum based on employee feedback and surveys to accomplish two key objectives: first, to ensure that managers and supervisors develop and maintain a comprehensive understanding of the Company’s HSE rules and tools; and second,  to assist in leaders expanding their emotional intelligence skills, which we identified as a critical competency for them to effectively drive desired HSE behavior, motivation and performance improvements. The HSE leadership program includes facilitated training, incorporating key concepts, such as transformational leadership, in on-demand micro-learning tools like infographics and videos. The majority of classroom time is spent with participants working on team exercises, risk analyses and presentations related to realistic workplace case studies. Following the formal trainings, we provide managers and supervisors with a variety of materials in multiple languages and different formats to assist them in applying the tools and leadership skills they developed in the classroom. Professional Development Program (HSEPRO) HSEPRO is a Schlumberger training and development program designed for employees in our HSE function. The program seeks to sustain and further develop our HSE function’s capabilities, in order to support operational compliance in an increasingly complex industry and operating environ.ment, and to develop talent and expand career opportunities within the Company’s HSE community. The program incorporates e-learning, internal and external training classes, personalized coaching, and “on the job tasks”. These tasks have been designed to develop and demonstrate participants’ HSE knowledge and competency related to general oilfield activities as well as business group-specific activities and risks. Participants are also required to complete the NEBOSH International General Certificate in Occupational Health and Safety or have an equivalent HSE-related bachelor’s degree. In 2019, more than 500 employees participated in HSEPRO across more than 50 countries. We also achieved our 2019 objective for this program, which was for more than 90% of HSEPRO participants to timely complete the program modules. HSE Communications We maintain and regularly update our global HSE Communication Toolkit, a central online repository for HSE resources in multiple languages. The Toolkit contains user-friendly, interactive materials to increase personnel engagement with HSE issues, and to maximize learning during HSE gatherings. We also make available to all employees and contractors with access to the internal Schlumberger network various HSE resources including: » HSE Nudges to help influence employee behavior;  » Schlumberger SAFE Meetings and Moments to enhance HSE learning;  » instructions for facilitating a Schlumberger SAFE Forum;  » videos and presentations to use in safety meetings; and  » posters and other infographics to prompt HSE-focused discussions in the workplace. We also require every Schlumberger location to develop an HSE communication plan, designed to ensure that clear, relevant and appropriate HSE information is communicated to the different audiences at that location at appropriate intervals. Health and Safety Nudges Nudge theory is a concept developed in behavioral economics for understanding how people think, make decisions, and behave. Subtle, smart “nudges” can promote and influence safer and healthier behaviors. At Schlumberger, our nudge program reinforces our strong HSE culture and further develops our workforce HSE engagement. We began introducing HSE nudges in 2018, and we expanded the nudge program in 2019 by developing and implementing a “nudge toolkit” across our global HSE operations. Applying nudging techniques has encouraged our workforce to achieve desired HSE behaviors. In total, we have designed and released 35 nudges to influence healthy behaviors and safe practices, including nudges relating to healthy food choices, anti-smoking, using the stairs, holding handrails, safe walkways, and energy efficiency.  HEALTH NUDGES Health nudges encourage healthy lifestyle choices using visual cues, such as: » Posters and nutrition information in breakrooms and on vending machines to influence healthy eating  » Floor stickers and posters that direct employees to the water cooler and remind them to drink more water  » Calorie-count stickers and posters on staircases to encourage employees to take the stairs instead of the elevator To encourage personnel to make healthier choices at the vending machines in the canteen and break rooms, an operational location in Sub-Saharan Africa used the health-related nudge “Re-Think Your Sugar”. The facility displayed sugar cubes below an image of each drink to accurately represent the grams of sugar in each drink to visually illustrate the amount of sugar contained in a variety of soft drinks. After six weeks, 73% of personnel surveyed said that their choices had been affected by the “sugar board” display, with 24% having completely eliminated soft drinks from their diet and 13% having reduced their soft drink consumption habits. SAFETY NUDGES Safety nudges serve as safety reminders, such as: » Posters to remind employees to double-check their personal protective equipment  » Floor and wall stickers to remind employees to use handrails when walking up or down stairs  » Stickers on vehicle visors and keychains to remind employees to remain vigilant and drive safely  » Reflective tape on the back of vehicles to make them stand out and prevent rear-end collisions Industry HSE Leadership Schlumberger is an active participant in the development of national and international standards with industry organizations including the American Petroleum Institute, the International Standards Organization, the IOGP Standards Committee, and IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for advancing environmental and social performance. Accordingly, our global HSE standards incorporate best practice guidance from such organizations as shown in the table at right. Schlumberger also has a long-standing commitment to sharing best practices and our HSE technical expertise through industry organizations. In 2019, Schlumberger employees served within IOGP on its Management Committee, as Vice Chairs of the Environment and Safety standing committees, and as Chairs, Vice Chairs, and active participants of several sub-committees and task forces. Also in 2019, Schlumberger had 19 technical papers accepted at the 2020 SPE International Conference and Exhibition on HSE and Sustainability, some of which were co-authored with industry associations and oil and gas companies. Several Schlumberger senior leaders participated as panel or plenary speakers, and Schlumberger representatives served on the executive committee and on several discipline organizing committees. Schlumberger personnel also participate in the development of industry best practices in specialist oil and gas associations, such as through membership on the DROPS global steering committee. Many individual Schlumberger employees are also active members of various international, national and regional oil and gas trade associations, including: » Society of Petroleum Engineers » International Association of Oil and Gas Producers » International Association of Drilling Contractors » the International Association of Geophysical Contractors » the Center for Offshore Safety (United States) » Step Change in Safety (United Kingdom) » ARPEL (Latin America and Caribbean region) » Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Association » the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association » Netherlands Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Association SCHLUMBERGER STANDARD  •  BEST PRACTICE GUIDANCE  Driving and Journey Management Standard  aligns with  IOGP Report 365, Land transportation safety recommended practice. Additionally, land transport contractor assessments are conducted in accordance with IOGP requirements.  HSE Event Reporting and Management Standard  aligns with  IOGP safety data reporting user guide, scope and definitions (updated annually)  Personnel and Asset Security Standard  incorporates and references  IOGP Reports on security risk management guidance (several are referenced)  Health Standard  references  IOGP and IPIECA Reports on health matters (several are referenced)  Environmental Standard  incorporates and references  IOGP Reports on environmental subject matter (several are referenced)  Contractor Management Standard  incorporates  Capability assessments and contractor management practices as recommended by IOGP Report 423, with geophysical opera.tions conducted in accordance with IOGP Report 423  Mechanical Lifting Standard  incorporates  IOGP Report 376, Lifting and hoisting safety recommended practice  DROPS Standard  incorporates  DROPS Forum requirements and best practice guidance  Schlumberger HSE Leadership and Culture Campaigns and Tools  incorporates  IOGP Reports on Human Factors, including Reports 435 and 452, and IOGP Life-Saving Rules, Report 459, with a transition to the nine new Rules released in 2018  Schlumberger Aviation Guidelines  adopts  IOGP Report 590, Aircraft Management Guidelines  Schlumberger Design for HSE Program  incorporates  IOGP 454, Human factors engineering in projects  HSE Performance Objectives Schlumberger executive management defines and documents our annual Below are examples of several of our 2019 HSE objectives and applicable achievement levels. strategic HSE objectives and performance targets. We require that these strategic objectives and performance targets be: » relevant to Schlumberger’s activities, products and services; » consistent with our HSE policies and strategic aims; » equal in importance with Schlumberger’s other business performance objectives; » implemented and maintained at all organizational levels; » clearly communicated; » consistent with our commitment to meet or exceed applicable regulatory requirements and/or Schlumberger standards, where regulations are not in place; and » designed to continuously to improve our HSE management system and HSE performance. We measure these objectives and targets jointly for employee performance and performance by applicable contractors (in accordance with IOGP guidance), and we cascade them across the Company through geographic and business unit-specific objectives. These objectives, as shown in the table, contain a combination of lagging and leading HSE indicators, which are monitored using our global online QHSE business system. Schlumberger sets internal performance metrics on lagging indicators at a standard that is higher than required by regulatory or industry lagging indicator reporting. For example, our TRIR internal metric includes off-duty injuries and illnesses, which are not required to be reported as “work-related” by regulatory authorities, such as OSHA, or industry associations, such as IOGP. In addition, our AARm internal metric includes all motor vehicle crashes, many of which are not required to be reported as “work-related” by industry associations. In addition to our company-wide HSE strategic objectives, we also annually set HSE personal objectives for all Schlumberger managers. The purpose of these personal objectives is to ensure that managers demonstrate high and visible HSE leadership and promote HSE compliance. For 2019, these objectives were set as follows, with specific targets varying depending on a manager’s level of operational responsibilities: » between one and three HSE leadership engagement visits per quarter; » between six and 13 risk identification reports completed per quarter; and » an overall training completion rate exceeding 90%. HSE INDICATOR  OBJECTIVES  ACHIEVEMENT 1  Total Recordable Incident Rate per million work hours (TRIR)2 » Covers injuries and illnesses for employees and applicable contractors3  » We annually set company-wide and geographic-specific TRIR objectives as percentage improvement compared to prior year’s performance  » 2019 Objective: 7% reduction ACHIEVED • •  Automotive Accident Rate per million miles (AARm)2 » Covers miles driven by employees and applicable contractors3  » We annually set company-wide and geographic-specific AARm objectives as percentage improvement compared to prior year’s performance  » 2019 Objective: 3% reduction ACHIEVED • •  Overall Training Coefficient » Covers employees and applicable contractors3  » We annually set company-wide and geographic-specific objectives for compli.ance with required HSE training programs  » 2019 Objective: Compliance level exceeding 90% overall ACHIEVED .•  Risk Identification Reporting Rate » Covers employees and applicable contractors3  » We annually set company-wide and geographic-specific objectives to increase our risk identification reporting rate  » 2019 Objective: 20% increase ACHIEVED • •  1 Reflects only company-wide objectives and achievement levels. Geographic- and business line-specific objectives and achievement levels are not reflected. 2 Reflects all Schlumberger-involved incidents or accidents, as applicable, including incidents that are not required to be recorded by IOGP or OSHA (such as incidents occurring during off-duty hours). 3 References to “applicable contractors” in this chart refer to the 38,000 contractors whose performance is included in our global QHSE business system as of December 31, 2019. These contractors are to some degree under Schlumberger’s operational control, and so are included in our safety metrics in accordance with IOGP best practices relating to contractor management (Mode 1 and Mode 2 contractors, as defined in IOGP Report 423). See also the section of this report titled “Contractor Management.” HSE Performance Data Schlumberger captures HSE performance data through our global online QHSE business system. Accessible by all employees and certain contractors, this system enables them to monitor reported HSE events, incidents and observations. We use lagging indicator incident data to benchmark our performance against industry data sources. The system facilitates the investigation process and management of remedial work plans and actions to prevent recurrence. Comprehensive investigations are conducted for incidents and high-potential events to identify learning opportunities, and lessons learned are incorporated into improvements of our facilities, equipment, processes, training, and systems. To promote continuous improvement, Schlumberger personnel are actively encouraged to report hazardous situations and near misses in risk identification reports and observation/intervention reports. Our HSE reporting also benefits from an HSE reporting app that enables employees to create a report and submit it to our global system in minutes using their mobile device. In 2019, our workforce submitted an average of more than 49 HSE reports per person into our global QHSE system, totaling more than 7 million HSE risk identification reports for the year. We use this data to monitor trends and identify areas of concern. Schlumberger employees can also use the system to suggest improve.ments, post recognitions, track HSE training, and analyze HSE data. The system can be used to assign job-specific HSE training and facilitate and track the testing and certification of computer-based training material. Our 2019 total recordable incident rate of 1.10 per million work hours (for employees and contractors) and our 2019 total recordable injury rate of 1.07 per million work hours (for employees and contractors) were each the lowest that Schlumberger has ever recorded. Our 2019 automotive accident rate improved by 12% year-over-year, from AARm 0.34 to 0.30, even with a 1% increase in total distance driven during the year. Land transport-related injuries accounted for 4% of all employee and contractor total recordable injuries and lost time injuries.  In 2019, Schlumberger automotive accidents resulted in eight lost workday cases and seven other recordable injuries  to our employees and contractors in 13 incidents. As a result, Schlumberger has focused considerable efforts on improving driving performance, including through the implementation of new safety technologies. We analyze all motor vehicle crashes in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the technologies we have implemented. Company data indicates that, in 2019, we significantly reduced the following types of collisions: » Head-on collision – 31% improvement year-over-year » Vehicle run off road – 53% improvement year-over-year » Hit vehicle in front – 23% improvement year-over-year » Animal strike – 41% improvement year-over-year The International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) annually reports upstream oil and gas work-related safety performance statistics. Schlumberger uses the IOGP definitions and reporting criteria to classify HSE data. The data include injuries sustained by company employees and contractors engaged in work-related activities. 2019 INCIDENT, INJURY AND ILLNESS RATES  EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS  PER MILLION WORK HOURS  PER 200,000 WORK HOURS  Total Recordable Incident Rate  1.10  0.22  Total Recordable Injury Rate  1.07  0.21  Total Recordable Illness Rate  0.025  0.005  EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS  PER MILLION WORK HOURS  PER 200,000 WORK HOURS  Lost Time Incident Rate  0.52  0.10  Lost Time Injury Rate  0.51  0.10  Lost Time Illness Rate  0.0075  0.0015  LAND TRANSPORT RELATED INJURIES IMPROVEMENT FROM 2018 TO 2019  EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS  EMPLOYEES ONLY  CONTRACTORS ONLY  Lost Time Injuries  47% improvement  55% improvement  25% improvement  Total Recordable Injuries  52% improvement  58% improvement  20% improvement  PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) auditors reviewed our processes and procedures for 2019 and verified a selected subset of our 2019 data. Health and safety data audited for 2019 includes the number of fatalities, employee and contractor lost-time injuries and illnesses, and the associated work hours to determine frequencies and rates. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are, in all material respects, fairly presented and in accordance with Schlumberger procedural guidelines. 