This Is SchlumbergerOur approach to sustainability is rooted in a long-standing culture of global social and environmental stewardship. For nearly 90 years, Schlumberger’s technological innovations have provided value for oil and gas operators by helping them increase production and recovery from nonrenewable resources—efficiently and with lower environmental impact. We strive
to be a unifying voice for social and environmental stewardship in the
communities where we and our customers live and work.Chairman’s MessageSustainable development at Schlumberger is rooted in a long-standing culture of environmental and social stewardship in the countries in which we operate.I am pleased to present our first Global Stewardship Report. Global Stewardship describes Schlumberger’s approach to managing the environmental impact and risks associated with our operations and addressing the
social needs of the communities in which we live and work. This report highlights examples of our long-standing engagement with stakeholders and our environmental and social stewardship.For nearly 90 years, Schlumberger has developed innovative technology to enable our customers to characterize the Earth’s subsurface and allow them to extract oil and gas in a safe and responsible manner. In our global operations, we have adopted an engineered approach that supports precise planning and responsible decision-making. Our actions are based on understanding the reservoir and integrating state-of-the-art technologies and services to deliver consistent, safe, and efficient operations. This
approach results in fewer but better wells that require fewer resources, leading to a reduced operational footprint and decreases in traffic and emissions.Technological innovation has been key to maximizing hydrocarbon recovery and production. It also plays a critical role as our industry seeks to reduce its environmen.tal impact and operational risk. By producing more with less, the industry also has an opportunity to reduce its environmental footprint and take a leading position in sustain.able development. Doing so will also help secure our social license to operate in 
the future.In fact, the technological advances that will propel this step change are already being used in some of the world’s basins. However, reducing our environmental footprint is not about doing one or two things or adding new tools to the toolbox. It requires implementing processes that integrate best practices, systems, and technologies that provide ongoing benefits while addressing environmental concerns.Technological innovations at 
Schlumberger that reduce environmental footprint are at work in our entire range of activities, from characterizing the reservoir to optimizing recovery and safely producing hydrocarbons. For example, in our seismic operations, WesternGeco is deploying new vessels with the latest energy efficiency improvements in order to achieve the lowest fuel consumption in the industry. In drilling operations, the PARALAND* nonaqueous drilling fluid system consists of biodegradable organic components that meet stringent international environmental standards. Production operations benefit from the HiWAY* flow-channel fracturing technique, which uses 25% less water and 40% less proppant per job and is currently being used in one out of four stimulation treatments worldwide. The BroadBand* family of unconventional reservoir completion services maximizes well productivity and hydrocarbon recovery through more precise fracture placement. 
Furthermore, operational efficiency is improved by controlling fracture placement to reduce water, proppant usage, and horsepower for a reduced footprint. Advances in modern chemistry allow Schlumberger to conserve freshwater supplies by using brackish water and other water sources not viable for agricultural purposes or drinking water. Today we recycle and reuse as much produced water as possible for repeated stimulation treatments. This closed-loop system—use, recycle, reuse—
reduces the hazardous waste from water treatment and filtration, and helps limit the need for costly disposal wells.We have also implemented internal programs to manage our energy use through technology improvements, energy reduction projects, and employee engagement. For example, the Schlumberger Engineering, Manufacturing and Sustaining (EMS) group launched a Lean and Green program in 2010 that targeted environmental waste in the form of energy, water, materials, emissions, and other solid and liquid wastes. By 2014, the program extended to 28 locations and included 40 projects that benefited the envi.ronment, saving more than one million kilowatt hours of electricity and generating more than $2 million in savings.At the heart of our Global Stewardship is our international workforce of professional men and women representing more than 140 nationalities, which makes us one of the most culturally diverse companies in the world. Our entrepreneurial roots and strong 
values encourage our employees to foster a sense of corporate and social responsibility to improve the education and living conditions of the people in communities where we live and work. The Company’s focus on education—particularly science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM)—brings development opportunities to students in communi.ties worldwide. For example, the Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) nonprofit initiative offers science and technology programs to local schools in the countries where Schlumberger operates. The Faculty for the Future program by the Schlumberger Foundation, an independent, nonprofit organization, awards fellowships to women from developing countries for doctoral and postdoctoral studies at top universi.ties around the world. Moreover, our HSE for Youth program educates young people to make responsible decisions about health, safety, and the environment.Finally, our social programs have a regional focus that combine hiring talent, working with suppliers, and collaborating with academia. Our engagement with academia
dates back to 1954 when we began helping to develop future petrotechnical experts and investing in science and energy research. Current key programs encompass invest.ments in grants, internships, sponsorships, laboratories, and computing infrastructure.
In 2014 alone, our software donations to 580 universities, colleges, and high schools in
70 countries totaled approximately $4.8 billion in commercial value. Other key areas of our university relations outreach are research and innovation, including our collabora.tions with talented primary investigators who are advancing science and technology. Our research interests include technologies that directly contribute to mitigating the impact of oil and gas operations on the environment.Schlumberger Global Stewardship relies on our employees’ ethical behavior and adher.ence to the Blue Print in Action—Our Code of Conduct. This document guides employ.ees in matters of business transparency, trade compliance, and social responsibility. It provides the foundation for how we take responsibility for our own actions and how our actions reflect on the Company. We look forward to strengthening our legacy as a technology innovator that helps our customers extract oil and gas as efficiently as possible while protecting the natural resources vital to the world’s survival. Paal KibsgaardChairman and Chief Executive OfficerSincerely,Paal Kibsgaard
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerGovernance and EthicsWe share a responsibility to protect our Company’s reputation for integrity and quality against the ever-changing challenges of the global marketplace. We are confident that by choosing a highly competent team of managers to lead us and by strictly adhering to our high standards of conduct, we will maintain our leadership role in the industry.Corporate Governance Principled corporate governance is the bedrock of our global stewardship, including
environmental, economic, and social responsibility in the communities where we live and work. Our board members are, without exception, fully committed to doing what is right, not only for Schlumberger, but also for the hundreds of communities where we operate.We adhere to sound principles of corporate governance and have adopted practices that the Board of Directors believes are consistent with Schlumberger values and that promote the effective functioning of the board, its committees, and our Company.Board Independence and Committees Structure..All of our directors are independent of the Company and management, except for our CEO. This is substantially above the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) requirement that a majority of directors be independent...All independent directors meet regularly in executive session...Only independent directors serve on our Audit, Compensation, Finance, Nominating and Governance, and Science and Technology Committees.Majority Voting and Stockholder Authority..We have a majority vote standard for uncontested director elections...All of our directors are elected annually. We do not have a staggered board...One or more stockholders representing 10% or more of outstanding shares can call a special stockholders meeting.Executive Stock Ownership GuidelinesWe have executive stock ownership guidelines, designed to align executive and stock.holder interests. For a description of the guidelines applicable to our executive officers and other senior members of management, see “Compensation Discussion and Analy.sis—Executive Stock Ownership Guidelines” in Schlumberger’s 2014 Proxy Statement.Risk Oversight..The full Board of Directors directly oversees risk management for the Company...The Audit Committee reviews and assesses financial reporting risk. It also reviews all significant finance-related violations of company policies brought to its attention, and once per year reviews and assesses finance-related violations...The Finance Committee oversees finance-related risks on a quarterly basis and
recommends guidelines to control cash, pension investments, banking relationships, and currency exposures...The Compensation Committee reviews and assesses our overall compensation program and its effectiveness at linking executive pay to performance, aligning the interests of our executives and stockholders, and providing for appropriate incentives...The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees compliance-related risk and the Company’s Ethics and Compliance Program.Hedging and Pledging PoliciesOur directors and executive officers are prohibited from hedging their ownership of Schlumberger stock. Furthermore, our directors and executive officers are prohibited from pledging their Schlumberger stock.Political ContributionsSchlumberger has a long-standing policy prohibiting the contribution of Schlumberger funds or assets to political parties or organizations, or their leaders, or to candidates for any public office.Board of DirectorsPeter L.S. CurrieLead Independent Director
President, Currie Capital LLC
Palo Alto, CaliforniaV. Maureen Kempston DarkesFormer Group Vice President
General Motors Corporation
Detroit, MichiganPaal KibsgaardChairman and Chief Executive Officer
Schlumberger LimitedNikolay KudryavtsevRector
Moscow Institute of Physics
and Technology
Moscow, RussiaMichael E. MarksManaging Partner
Riverwood Capital, LLC
Palo Alto, CaliforniaIndra K. Nooyi Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerPepsiCo, Inc.Purchase, New YorkLubna S. OlayanChief Executive Officer
Olayan Financing Company
Riyadh, Saudi ArabiaLeo Rafael ReifPresident
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, MassachusettsTore I. SandvoldExecutive Chairman
Sandvold Energy AS
Oslo, NorwayHenri SeydouxChairman and Chief Executive Officer
Parrot S.A.
Paris, FranceStructureSchlumberger’s Board of Directors consists of 10 members, including one executive director and nine independent directors. Our director independence standards meet or exceed the independence requirements in the NYSE listing standards.DiversityWith approximately 105,000 employees worldwide, representing more than 140
nationalities, Schlumberger and our Board of Directors value gender, cultural, and geographic diversity in our directors as well. Three of our 10 directors are women. Of our 10 directors, four are citizens of the United States, two are citizens of Norway, and one each is a citizen of Canada, France, Russia, and Saudi Arabia. Additionally, we are com.mitted to having directors who represent countries where we operate, as well as
directors whose backgrounds and experiences complement those of other directors. The Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee annually reviews its effectiveness in balancing these considerations.LeadershipIn April 2015, the independent members of the Board, after thoughtful consideration to the Board’s leadership structure, determined that recombining the Chairman and CEO positions under the leadership of Paal Kibsgaard would be in the best interests of the Company and the stockholders. Prior to that, Tony Isaac had served as the independent, Non-Executive Chairman of the Board since April 2012. The determination to combine the Chairman and CEO roles was based on the Board’s strong belief that, as the individ.ual with primary responsibility for managing the Company’s day-to-day operations and with his extensive knowledge and understanding of the Company, Mr. Kibsgaard was best positioned to chair regular Board meetings as the directors discuss key business and strategic issues and to focus the Board’s attention on the issues of greatest
importance to the Company and its stockholders. Furthermore, the Board believes that combining the roles of Chairman and CEO in Mr. Kibsgaard creates a clear line of authority that promotes decisive and effective leadership, both within and outside the Company. In making this judgment, the Board took into account its evaluation of
Mr. Kibsgaard’s performance as CEO and as a current member of the Board, his positive relationships with the other directors, and the strategic perspective he would bring to the role of Chairman. In connection with its decision to recombine the roles of Chairman and CEO under
Mr. Kibsgaard, the Board recognized the importance of having a board structure that would continue to promote the appropriate exercise of independent judgment by the Board. Thus, the Board appointed Peter L.S. Currie as the Board’s lead independent director in April 2015 in connection with Mr. Kibsgaard’s succession to the role of
Chairman of the Board.Board CommitteesAudit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of three directors, each of whom meets the indepen.dence and other requirements of the NYSE’s listing standards. The Audit Committee assists the board in its oversight of the integrity of the Company’s financial statements; legal and regulatory compliance; the independent, registered, public accounting firm’s qualifications, independence, performance, and related matters—as well as the
performance of Schlumberger’s internal audit function. Audit Committee members are V. Maureen Kempston Darkes, Nikolay Kudryavtsev, and Indra K. Nooyi.Compensation CommitteeThe Compensation Committee consists of four directors, each of whom meets the
independence requirements of the NYSE’s listing standards. The purposes of the
Compensation Committee are to assist Schlumberger’s Board of Directors in discharging its responsibilities with regard to executive compensation, to periodically review
non-executive directors’ compensation, to oversee Schlumberger’s general compensa.tion philosophy, to serve as the administrative committee under Schlumberger’s stock plans, and to prepare the annual Compensation Committee Report required by the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Compensation Committee members are Michael E. Marks, Peter L.S. Currie, Indra K. Nooyi, and Lubna S. Olayan.Nominating and Governance CommitteeThe Nominating and Governance Committee consists of four directors, each of whom meets the independence requirements of the NYSE’s listing standards. The authority and responsibilities of the Nominating and Governance Committee are to help the board
(1) identify individuals qualified to become directors consistent with criteria approved by the board and recommend candidates for election at the next annual general meeting of stockholders; (2) nominate directors to serve on and to chair the board committees; (3) review corporate governance trends; (4) develop and recommend to the board a set of corporate governance guidelines and recommend any amendments; (5) monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s Ethics and Compliance Program; and
(6) oversee the annual review of the board’s performance. Nominating and Governance Committee members are Peter L.S. Currie, Michael E. Marks, Leo Rafael Reif, and
Tore I. Sandvold.Finance Committee
The Finance Committee advises the board and management on various matters,
including dividends, financial policies, and the investment of funds. Finance Committee members are Tore I. Sandvold, Lubna S. Olayan, and Henri Seydoux.Science and Technology CommitteeThe Science and Technology Committee advises the board and management on matters involving the Company’s research and development programs. Science and Technology Committee members are Leo Rafael Reif, Nikolay Kudryavtsev, and Henri Seydoux.Communication with the BoardThe Schlumberger board members can be contacted at the following address.Schlumberger Board of Directors
(or Name of Board Member)
c/o the Schlumberger Limited Secretary
Schlumberger Limited5599 San Felipe, 17th Floor
Houston, Texas 77056Executive CompensationIn keeping with our pay-for-performance culture, our long-standing compensation phi.losophy is to pay senior executives and other professional-level employees for perfor.mance that is evaluated against personal and company financial goals established at the beginning of the calendar year and reviewed at the end of the year against actual per.formance. Our compensation program is driven by the need to recruit, develop, motivate, and retain top talent in both the short term and the long term by establishing compensa.tion at levels that are competitive and to promote our values of people, technology, and profitability. Promotion from within the Company is a key principle at Schlumberger, and all executive officers, including the named executive officers, have reached their current positions through career development within the Company. We see diversity of our workforce as both a very important part of our cultural philosophy and a business imperative, as it enables us to better serve clients anywhere in the world. We believe that our consistent approach to compensation at all levels, irrespective of nationality, is a strong factor in achieving a diverse workforce comprising top global talent.Our compensation program is designed so that the higher an executive’s position in the Company, the larger the proportion of compensation that is contingent on positive stock price performance, the Company’s financial performance, and/or individual perfor.mance, described as “at-risk” compensation. We believe that having a significant
portion of executive compensation at risk more closely aligns the interests of our executives with the long-term interests of Schlumberger and our stockholders. Accord.ingly, our named executive officers receive a greater percentage of their compensation through at-risk pay tied to company performance than do our other executives.Executive compensation consists of three primary elements that constitute our
executives’ total direct compensation:..base salary..annual cash incentives based on company and individual performance..long-term equity incentives.These elements allow us to remain competitive and to attract, retain, and motivate top executive talent with current and potential future financial rewards. This relatively
simple compensation program also is applied and communicated consistently to our exempt employees of more than 140 nationalities and who work in approximately
85 countries.Financial Highlights
Schlumberger revenue for 2014 reached a record $48.6 billion, up 7% and growing for the fifth consecutive year.Financial Performance from 2012 to 2014
(Stated in millions except per-share amount)Source	2012	2013	2014Revenue	$41,731	$45,266	$48,580Income from continuing operations	$5,230	$6,801	$5,643Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations	$3.91	$5.10	$4.31Cash dividends per share	$1.10	$1.25	$1.60Net debt	$5,111	$4,443	$5,387Schlumberger RevenueSchlumberger Operating IncomeAmount in millions of dollars ($)Amount in millions of dollars ($)EthicsSchlumberger’s strong reputation for integrity has been built over many decades of
ethical business practices, including relationships among our coworkers and with
customers, industry stakeholders, business associates, and the communities in which we live and work.The Blue Print in Action—Our Code of Conduct is a guide to support our employees in making sometimes difficult decisions on the job—wherever they work in the world.
The document details legal obligations and regulatory requirements with which all Schlumberger employees must comply and for which we are all accountable, including anticorruption measures, intellectual property protection, and social responsibility.AnticorruptionBusiness EthicsActing ethically means not only complying with laws and regulations but also recog.nizing that our decisions affect others. Through compliance and ethical behavior, we maintain the respect, trust, and confidence of our customers, colleagues, shareholders, and others affected by our operations (Code of Conduct, p. 7).Schlumberger also requires suppliers and other third parties doing business or entering into contracts with Schlumberger to abide strictly by our ethical standards.Supply Chain ManagementSchlumberger has zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, and we expect the same from our contractors and suppliers. We work with our suppliers in a socially responsible and ethical manner and continuously seek to improve the way we conduct business. All suppliers, contractors, and agents are approved and managed according to our Code of Conduct and other company requirements (Code of Conduct, p. 7).To meet our requirements for working conditions, our suppliers must adhere to respon.sible social, environmental, and economic practices. These requirements relate to freely chosen employment, child labor, discrimination, harsh and inhumane treatment, mini.mum wages, working hours, and freedom of association.Employee Whistle Blower Protection Schlumberger prohibits retaliation for good faith reporting of both potential and actual violations of the Code of Conduct, other company requirements, and applicable laws. Employees who intentionally report false information are subject to disciplinary action
 (Code of Conduct, p. 7).Employees who know of or suspect a violation of the Code of Conduct or applicable laws are required to report it internally (Code of Conduct, p. 7).Conflicts of InterestEmployees must put Schlumberger business interests first, disclose all conflicts of inter.est, and avoid situations that create the appearance of a conflict of interest. If such a conflict exists, the affected employee must obtain written approval from an appropriate Schlumberger controller before continuing to work (Code of Conduct, p. 9).Stock TransactionsWe keep confidential all nonpublic and insider information that relates to Schlumberger or our financial position. This includes knowledge of unannounced marketing plans, new product releases, financial results, changes in dividends and earnings, planned mergers and acquisitions, and business strategies. If we have such information, we must keep it confidential and we may not buy or sell Schlumberger Limited stock or publicly traded options of Schlumberger stock until the information becomes public. Stock and options of other companies with which Schlumberger does business also cannot be acted upon until the information is public knowledge (Code of Conduct, p. 10).Gifts and EntertainmentGifts and hospitality of more than nominal value (defined as $200 or any lower limit speci.fied locally) cannot be offered to or accepted from any individual or organization that does or seeks to do business with Schlumberger (Code of Conduct, p. 11).AntibriberySchlumberger has zero tolerance for corruption. Bribes are never offered or accepted in any form or under any circumstance. We do not use company funds or assets for political purposes. We may engage in direct dialogue with public policy decision makers, but we do not use lobbyists or seek to bring about particular outcomes or decisions. We avoid facilitation payments, making them only in very limited circumstances, such as when health or safety is at risk, and only when we have obtained proper approval and documentation according to Schlumberger requirements (Code of Conduct, p. 13).Fair and Ethical Competition Schlumberger competes aggressively but fairly. We do not enter into agreements that can restrict full and fair competition. We do not share pricing and bidding information with competitors or anyone outside of Schlumberger (Code of Conduct, p. 14). Trade ComplianceWe comply fully with all applicable trade control laws and regulations. We are especially mindful of technology transfers. We review all shipments for compliance before they are shipped or released. We expect all employees to consult a trade control compliance manager about any questionable import or export (Code of Conduct, p. 16).Business and Financial TransparencyWe maintain honest and accurate business records. We never hide, alter, falsify, or disguise the true nature of any business transaction. We comply with accounting and financial reporting standards and require employees to follow internal financial approval guidelines. We retain and destroy business records in accordance with local laws and 
Schlumberger requirements (Code of Conduct, p. 20).Conflict MineralsSchlumberger recognizes that there are serious human rights abuses associated with the extraction, transportation, and trade in minerals in the covered countries. We have always supported responsible sourcing of materials from suppliers that share our val.ues, and we commit to avoiding contributing to the conflict through our sourcing activity.As expressed in our Code of Conduct (our Blue Print in Action), Schlumberger does not tolerate any corruption of any kind in dealings with our suppliers, and we expect our suppliers to adhere to the same standard. We work with our suppliers in a socially responsible and ethical manner. A potential supplier is selected and retained only after it has evidenced in writing its adherence to our Code of Conduct and other internal compli.ance requirements, including health, safety, and environmental. In addition, we audit our top suppliers every 2 years to ensure adherence to our Code of Conduct. We have developed a Conflict Minerals Policy to supplement our Code of Conduct.Information ProtectionInformation SecurityWe collect personal information only for lawful business purposes. Schlumberger pro.tects and respects the privacy of any employee or third party whose personal informa.tion we process. Specific internal data privacy requirements guide the collection, use, transfer (including transfer across international boundaries), release, disclosure, and security of such data. These requirements also pertain to third parties who process such data on our behalf. The transfer of employee data to third parties operating in countries that do not offer adequate levels of personal data protection (e.g., outside the European Economic Area) is regulated more strictly (Code of Conduct, p. 17).Consumer Data ProtectionWe protect important information, whether it belongs to Schlumberger or to others who have entrusted it to us. Confidential or commercially sensitive information comes in many forms, including in conversations, on paper, and electronically (Code of Conduct, p. 18). Schlumberger has instituted multiple safeguards for software, hardware, and file-
transfer protection and procedures for employees and vendors.Intellectual Property Rights ProtectionWe protect our own technology and intellectual property assets. We require employ.ees to acknowledge that intellectual property created while working for the Company belongs exclusively to the Company. We comply with restrictions on the installation and use of third-party software. Employees cannot make or use copies of software, pub.lications, copyrighted materials, or trademarks without proper authorization (Code of Conduct p. 19).Social ResponsibilityEqual OpportunityAs a global company, we encourage fair employment practices and offer equal opportu.nities to all our employees  (Code of Conduct, p. 15).Fair WagesWe encourage fair employment practices among our customers and suppliers world.wide and offer equal opportunities to all our employees (Code of Conduct, p. 15).In addition, we require our suppliers to comply with all applicable wage laws, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime hours, and legally mandated benefits. Human RightsSchlumberger endorses the aspirations of the United Nations International Bill of Human Rights. We encourage work that augments the contributions that businesses can make to preserve and respect human dignity (Code of Conduct, p. 15).Harsh and inhumane treatment, including sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion, and verbal abuse, is strictly prohibited, as is any threat of such treatment. We also require our suppliers to provide workplaces that are free of harassment and unlawful discrimination. Suppliers must not engage in discrimination based on race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, religion, union membership, or marital status (Supply Chain Services).Immigration and Employment LawsWe comply with all immigration and employment laws. We expect all employees to take responsibility for their immigration status. We expect all employee dependents and con.tractor personnel to abide by immigration laws. We maintain immigration-compliance programs to ensure that correct procedures are followed (Code of Conduct, p. 16).Child LaborHiring children is strictly prohibited. A child laborer is defined as any person working
(1) under the age of 15, (2) under the age for completing compulsory education, and
(3) under the minimum age for employment in the country, whichever is youngest. Employee Corporate Social ResponsibilitySchlumberger’s entrepreneurial roots and solid values encourage our employees to make Schlumberger their company—to create something larger than themselves. This empowerment instills in them a deep sense of corporate responsibility to help improve the living conditions of the thousands of communities where we live and work. Our focus on education, in particular science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), has brought development opportunities to students in villages and larger communities worldwide (Our Identity, p. 2).Environmental ResponsibilityProtecting the EnvironmentSchlumberger is committed to minimizing our impact on the environment. We do this by preventing pollution, reducing emissions, consuming fewer natural resources, and mini.mizing waste. Prevention is only the first step. After any incident, Schlumberger provides training programs and assesses any needed changes to programs and equipment (Code of Conduct, p. 8).Operations Integrity Our reputation for trust and integrity depends on continuous improvement in the qual.ity of our products and the delivery of services to our customers. Operations integrity means that every employee commits to doing the job right the first time, every time. We demonstrate our commitment to quality by meeting or exceeding customer expectations and by avoiding nonconformities in our daily activities. To help make continuous quality improvements, we participate in all required audits and periodic assessments. We also can help improve quality by addressing customer feedback in a timely and appropriate manner (Code of Conduct, p. 8).Addressing Climate ChangeAs a global technology leader, we believe that our ability to address climate
change issues with innovative new technologies and increased operational perfor.mance is integral to the energy industry’s global initiative to reduce carbon footprint.
Schlumberger technologies are already directly and indirectly helping our customers reduce or avoid emissions, lower water usage, improve chemistry applications, and increase oil and gas production using fewer resources. Our corporate strategy includes the development of advanced technologies for faster drilling, reduced surface and sub.surface footprint, and improved reservoir recovery and production, all of which contrib.ute to lowering resource requirements and creating fewer emissions per hydrocarbon unit produced.HSE Management SystemThrough effective management, we set quality and health, safety, and environment (HSE) performance objectives, measure results, train employees, and assess and
continuously improve processes, services, and product quality. The Schlumberger
HSE Management System defines the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide with regard to health, safety, and the environment. Management communi.cates the HSE philosophy to all employees, customers, contractors, and third parties
associated with our business, and each Schlumberger organization must provide posi.tive evidence of conformance to the system.

Environmental Quality Management 
Within Schlumberger, environmental management has been integrated into our HSE management system for 15 years. Our system has been independently reviewed for
conformance to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standard and
currently is being reviewed for conformance to the International Finance Corporation environmental standards.EnvironmentCommunityTrack RecordSchlumberger’s technologies strive to lower environmental impact and provide value to
customers and other stakeholders by reliably and efficiently optimizing production and
recovery of nonrenewable resources.Schlumberger’s successes in governance,
ethics, environmentally responsible technologies, and social and community engagement are evaluated against internationally recognized standards and guidelines.Schlumberger’s strong focus on integrity and corporate responsibility enables us to take pride in our work and empowers us to enhance the well-being of the communities where we live
and work.