SCHLUMBERGER AT A GLANCE Schlumberger is a technology company that partners with customers to provide access to energy. Our people provide leading digital solutions and deploy innovative technologies to enable performance and sustainability for the global energy industry. With expertise in more than 120 countries, we collaborate to create technology that unlocks access to energy for the benefit of all. Schlumberger is organized under four Divisions operating in five distinct Basins that are aligned with critical hubs of activity. The four Divisions are: Digital & Integration - Combines Schlumberger’s digital workflow solutions and seismic data interpretation and management businesses with its integrated offering of Asset Performance Solutions. Reservoir Performance - Consists of reservoir-centric technologies and services that are critical to optimizing reservoir productivity and performance. Well Construction - Combines the full portfolio of products and services to optimize well placement and performance, maximize drilling efficiency, and improve wellbore assurance. Production Systems - Develops and provides technologies and expertise that enhance production and recovery from subsurface reservoirs to the surface, into pipelines, and to refineries. 2021 revenue 92,000+ Workforce 160+ Nationalities 120+ Countries NEW ENERGY New Energy explores new avenues of growth by leveraging Schlumberger’s intellectual and business capital in emerging new energy markets, with a focus on low-carbon and carbon-neutral energy technologies. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Message from the Chief Executive Officer Last year was pivotal for Schlumberger, and I am proud of the actions we have taken to weave sustainability more deeply into our culture, driving our decisions today and setting the foundation for our future. We announced our 2050 net zero commitment, including Scope 3 emissions. This commitment goes beyond our direct emissions and tightly aligns us with our customers to drive decarbonization across the industry. As an innovation leader, we are uniquely positioned to advance decarbonization. We developed and launched the Transition Technologies* portfolio, which is focused on reducing emissions from oil and gas operations and accelerating the path to net zero for the industry. Making a positive impact on customers’ Scope 1 and 2 emissions, while simultaneously providing a key avenue to reduce our own Scope 3 emissions, was a key achievement. We will continue to invest in this portfolio and create new ways to help customers reduce their operational emissions. At the same time, we advanced every venture in the Schlumberger New Energy portfolio, where we are exploring new businesses in low-carbon or carbon-neutral energy technologies. We are building partnerships and applying our experience in technology industrialization to help other industries reduce their emissions, and to expand into areas in energy end-use and storage, where our technology expertise holds great opportunity. I am grateful for the Board of Directors and our many partners who give us the confidence to have a bold vision, and for the passion of the Schlumberger team, which is dedicated to driving innovation and creating a more sustainable future. Olivier Le Peuch Chief Executive Officer 2021 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS improvement in total recordable UN SDGs 30%injury frequency rate from 2019 Women comprised 30% of our executive team in 2021, and represented 22% of management-level roles and 48% of new hires for salaried roles with STEM backgrounds independent human rights audits of our facilities and suppliers 6in five countries Completed Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Message from the Chief Strategy and Sustainability Officer The dynamics in the energy industry have shifted, and the result has been an emphasis on energy security and diversification of supply. Society is re.examining strategies to provide people with a mix of affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy, and our industry has a key role to play. At the same time, it is of utmost importance that we remain wholly committed to advancing sustainability in our company and the industry—for Schlumberger, it is a key priority. We need to use all the energy sources we have to design a transition that meets the growing energy need while avoiding the worst impacts of climate change. Short-term challenges are not distracting us from the big picture and the massive investment needed to realize transition. Strategy and sustainability are deeply connected, and our strategy is based on two central beliefs. First, the energy system is not ready to go completely carbon free in the short term, and that is why we are using our capabilities and expertise to decarbonize industry operations now with technology we have, and by developing new solutions to reduce industry emissions as fast as possible. Second, as a technology innovator with scale, we know we have a lot to contribute to the energy system of the future. We are applying our expertise in Carbon Capture and Sequestration (CCS) to help other industries decarbonize, while investing in technologies that will generate lower-carbon energy tomorrow. Our momentum is strong, and we are accelerating action to drive sustainability impacts and meaningfully contribute to both the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement. We are developing robust road maps to net zero and decarbonized operations, while providing in-country value, respecting human rights, and fully embracing all aspects of diversity, equity, and inclusion. And our local teams are empowered to invest in projects that make positive impacts aligning to their local communities’ priority SDGs, in addition to stakeholder and business impact. We constantly challenge ourselves to deliver results and elevate our impact through collaboration with strategic partners. Technology and innovation, which are deeply rooted in Schlumberger culture, are of course fundamental to driving this positive change. This is an exciting time for us as we work to operationalize sustainability and align ourselves with the goals and expectations of our customers, our suppliers, and the communities where we live and work. I am proud of what we have already achieved and look forward to what we can do in the future. Chief Strategy and Sustainability Officer INDUSTRY AWARDS AND RECOGNITION ESG Ratings 2021: MSCI AA Sustainalytics 24.3 Medium Risk Rating,  28th percentile among global peers. S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook 2021’s Energy Equipment & Services category: Schlumberger named among Sustainability leaders. Institutional Investor’s America’s Most Honored Companies: Schlumberger among the 23 companies recognized for sustainability. Hart’s inaugural Energy ESG Awards: Schlumberger named a Top Performer in the public service company category. Hart Energy’s E&P’s Meritorious Award for Engineering Innovation (Middle East and Asia): Schlumberger recognized in two categories (Onshore Rigs and Drill Bits). International SOS Foundation’s Duty of Care Awards: Schlumberger shortlisted in the Communication category. American Made Challenges Awards: A Schlumberger team qualified as a quarterfinalist for the Geothermal Prize. Energy Council’s Annual Awards: Schlumberger shortlisted in the Oilfield Services Company of the Year category. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE OUR PURPOSE Together, we create amazing technology that unlocks access to energy for the benefit of all. OUR VISION With our purpose in mind, our vision is to define and drive high performance for the energy industry, sustainably. OUR FOUNDATION Our sustainability strategy is built on the foundation  of protecting the health of our employees and managing health, safety, and environment (HSE) risks in the workplace and our operations, along with a commitment to operating ethically and through responsible sourcing. Our Approach to Sustainability As a global technology company for the energy industry, we are committed to being at the forefront of the global shift toward more sustainable energy production—challenging not only ourselves, but also our customers, suppliers, and peers to partner on delivering measurable social and environmental progress. This translates into making measurable strides to accelerate innovation in energy transition and to achieving these goals in a way that contributes to energy access and economic development with both a global and local lens. In that context, our sustainability focus for the near to medium term has three priorities: Climate Action, People, and Nature. Our approach to operationalizing our sustainability strategy is described in this report. We seek to leverage our unique capabilities, invest in technology and innovation, develop strategic partnerships, and engage the entire Schlumberger organization to achieve our sustainability goals. Every named executive officer had at least one strategic personal objective related to sustainability in 2021. In addition, emissions reduction goals and gender balance targets have been incorporated into the management cash incentive program across our geographies. Delivering on our ambitions represents a substantial opportunity for the company in the coming decade, while enabling us to contribute to the SDGs in cooperation with communities where we operate. By operationalizing sustainability, we seek to drive alignment of business decisions with our sustainability objectives, where we need consistent, timely, and detailed data; have sustainability embedded into decision-making tools and processes; and have a forward-looking view of climate impacts and energy demand with scenario planning to enable proactive decisions. Our strategy is strongly focused on digital enablement, aimed at investing in sustainability data that meets regulatory and auditing requirements and is supported by a robust governance structure. Innovation and technology are fundamental to accelerating our journey. We believe strategic partnerships in key areas will allow us to act now for a better future. Schlumberger is committed to providing technologies and services that enhance and optimize our customers’ performance while making the most of our unique assets. To that end, we look to three long-established values that guide the decisions we make as we pursue our ambitions: • People: Exceptional people join us from around the world because of who we are, and then they make us what we are. Committed to customers, constantly learning and growing, we thrive on the world’s biggest technical challenges. This is the pulse and spirit of Schlumberger. • Technology: We were founded through invention, and we grow, prosper, and lead through continuous innovation and a commitment to practical excellence. Today, we are engineering a sustainable future for the energy industry and helping to create a better world for all. • Profits: Financial strength gives us the independence and resources to make brave calls about the future and drive bold, visionary innovation for the long term. Investment discipline matters: the returns we generate ensure our talent and technology are best in class, and the value we create is widely shared. Our sustainability reporting is guided by our stakeholders and third-party frameworks, including • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards • Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Recommendations • UN Sustainable Development Goals • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Reporting Framework. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Our SDG-Aligned Initiatives No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health and Quality Education Gender Equality Clean Water Wellbeing and Sanitation In Mozambique, in In Brazil, following the In Egypt, we are running In Malaysia, we have collaboration with a devastating effects of In India, Schlumberger coding and robotic mentored 77 women In Mexico, a new water customer, we launched heavy rains in Petrópolis, partnered with a local workshops at a school to as part of our global cycle management a project to rehabilitate Schlumberger employees nonprofit organization inspire students about WISE (Women Inspiring, system within our onsite community infrastructure in conflict-affected donated 700 kg of food and basic hygene, and to set up a pressure swing adsorption oxygen STEM. Our team has also equipped the school Supporting and Empowering each other) wastewater plant has resulted in a 7% reduction districts of Cabo Delgado, helping facilitate the cleaning items to help families in need. plant. The facility delivered onsite, piped with refurbished computers and furniture to set program. Since the program’s launch in 2020, in water consumption and a 13% reduction in return of internally displaced peoples. oxygen to rural hospitals to cater to the needs up a computer lab. we have organized more than 650 mentoring waste discharge. of people in more than 190 villages in the Pune sessions around the globe, each designed to district of Maharashtra. accelerate women’s readiness to assume key leadership roles. Affordable and Decent Work and Industry, Innovation Reduced Inequalities Sustainable Cities Responsible Clean Energy Economic Growth and Infrastructure and Communities Consumption As part of our  and Production In Turkmenistan, we In Ecuador, as part of the In the United Reconciliation Action In Angola, we have  installed 112 solar panels PURE initiative, we are Kingdom, we are  Plan, which is  partnered with a  In the United States, at our Balkanabat facility supporting and offering moving to a green  focused on developing  center that supports 550 of our laptops were to reduce electricity consumption. This was the expertise for community enterprise projects—such electricity grid, upgrading to LED lighting, and respectful relationships with Aboriginal approximately 200 homeless or displaced refurbished and donated to communities in first time that a solar installation of this capacity as a water purification and commercialization replacing diesel generators with natural gas. Australian and Torres Strait Islander peoples, children. We are helping to build an additional need. This saved an estimated 566 metric tons had been constructed in the country. enterprise that benefits indigenous communities. These initiatives resulted in a 19% reduction in  we invest in future generations through our facility that will be used to provide vocational of CO2e through responsible recycling and  Our teams also sponsored and volunteered at our 2021 GHG emissions compared to 2020. scholarship program at Murdoch University training to support future employment reuse efforts. a baking and pastry workshop to help create in Australia, as well as local traineeship and opportunities. businesses and new sources of income for families. apprenticeship programs. Climate Action Life Below Water Life on Land Peace, Justice and Partnerships for Goals Strong Institutions In China, we replaced  In Brunei, Schlumberger In Turkey, our teams Schlumberger is a 18 light vehicles with  volunteers collected worked with the  We performed  Partner of the Solar hybrid or pure-electric more than 80 bags  General Directorate of operations assurance Impulse Foundation, cars. This initiative  of waste from a single  Forestry to plant 10,000 reviews of locations tasked with selecting prevented the consumption of 53,000 liters  beach in Kuala Belait.  trees to restore the local ecosystem in Ankara.  using a risk-based approach. Findings are 1,000 solutions that protect the environment of gasoline annually and represents an  addressed as needed. in profitable ways. Celsius Energy*, a The content of this publication has not been annual reduction of 130 metric tons of  Schlumberger low carbon business venture approved by the United Nations and does CO2 emissions. located in France focused on geoenergy for not reflect the views of the United Nations heating and cooling buildings, has received or its officials or Member States.  the 1,000 solutions label. https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/ 