Stakeholder Engagement We engage with our stakeholders to learn about their changing expectations and needs. By actively listening to their feedback, we are better able to align our business processes to conform to local and national priorities. Our stakeholder engagement takes many forms. We meet regularly with investors, we join industry initiatives and partnerships, we participate in academic forums and, in consultation with our customers, we often participate in local community meetings. In 2017, we committed significant resources to listening to our employees through Engage to Excel, a new and ongoing employee engagement program. Our Stakeholders Customers Continuous engagement with customers enables us to appreciate their needs and expectations around many issues in the oil and gas industry. Our interpretation of this information enables our investment in technologies and solutions to be tailored to market requirements while also remaining aligned with our Global Stewardship priorities. Strategic planning demands that we respond to environmental and other concerns in a manner that leads toward our sustainable existence in the communities where we live and work. Employees We work in more than 85 countries and employ approximately 100,000 people who represent over 140 nationalities. Our commitment to nationality and gender diversity enables us to offer a truly global approach. Our employees are the most professional women and men in the oil and gas services industry, and we consider them to be the most credible ambassadors of Schlumberger and one of our most important stakeholder groups.  Communities We strive to make a marked and positive impact wherever we work. The results of our efforts touch our employees, contractors, suppliers, and clients as well as the communities in which we live and work. Schlumberger trucks and equipment are often the most visible aspect of our presence in these communities, and our impact is frequently measured by local populations in increased potholes, dust, and traffic noise. Our direct impact on local economies can also be measured in taxes, customs tariffs, the wages we pay to local workers, the promotion of our strong health and safety culture, and the wide range of initiatives we undertake to build supply chain capacity in communities.  Universities Schlumberger has a long history of partnering with universities. Our relationships with approximately 700 universities and other academic institutions around the world contribute to developing our products and services and provide a plentiful source of potential employees. These partnerships are part of our Global Stewardship network, which is how we manage our impact on the wider environment and in the communities where we live and work. Suppliers Schlumberger Supply Chain Services pursues relationships with suppliers based on cooperation, trust, reliability, and communication. We procure products and services through manufacturers and suppliers that demonstrate high standards for quality, service, pricing, performance, after-sales support, and supply chain management. The Company continues to examine the feasibility of supplier capacity building programs in several countries. Keeping Investors Informed Schlumberger uses many avenues to engage investors who seek perspective on the Company. • Speeches and conference presentations by senior managers explain strategy and the technical means by which it is carried out • Conference calls after quarterly earnings give context and color to results while welcoming questions from institutional investors and analysts • Face-to-face meetings at conferences and at Schlumberger and investor offices create the personal contact essential to investors’ understanding of the Company • Tours of Company facilities worldwide, including North America, the Middle East, China, Latin America, and Europe give investors direct experience of operations • Company-hosted two-day conferences give investors a broad, multiyear company outlook while putting them in personal contact with dozens of specialized managers • Conference calls engage investors in discussion immediately upon announcement of significant events, such as acquisitions • Our Investor Relations website offers complete financial performance data, archived press releases, replays of conference calls, the annual report, and much more • Senior Investor Relations staff responds promptly to market inquiries  Reporting on Performance   Schlumberger utilizes GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards established by the Global Reporting Initiative. We also participate with several third-party firms that collect and report on corporate environmental, social, and governance performance: • Bloomberg Dashboard: ESG data provided worldwide on the Bloomberg Professional Service • RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment: An evaluation of corporate ESG performance that provides the basis for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index • FTSE Russell: A series of indices measuring the ethical performance of corporations  • Sustainalytics: ESG data provided for benchmarking sustainability performance • CDP: a global organization that works with large institutional shareholders to identify climate risks in their investment portfolios Engaging with Policy Makers We engage with policy-makers in a wide variety of capacities:  • We are sponsors and active participants in the National Academy of Sciences’ Roundtable Project on Unconventional Hydrocarbon Development • We have been an industrial sponsor and executive committee member for the Interna.tional Energy Agency’s Greenhouse Gas Research and Development program, and a member of the agency’s technical networks addressing monitoring, risk assessment, wellbore integrity, modeling, and social research • We are a founding member of the Global CCS Institute and have participated in numerous international meetings • We have served as an advisory committee member of the European Technology Platform for Zero Emission Fossil Fuel Power Plants and participated in numerous working groups • We have participated as a member of the North America Carbon Capture and Storage Association • We are a founding member of the Board of Directors of the UK Carbon Capture and Storage Association • We have served as project manager, technolo.gy supplier, and member of a research consortium of Australia’s CO2 CRC Otway Project, a large research and geosequestration demonstration project • Through our relationship with the Petroleum Equipment and Services Association, twice a year Schlumberger trains Foreign Service Officers from the US State Department on various aspects of the oil and gas industry • We are a member of the National Petroleum Council, which provides advice on energy sourcing and energy security to the US Department of Energy • We are a charter member of the OPEC Fund for International Development’s Energy Access program • We are a sustaining member and serve on the Board of Directors for the Stanford University natural gas initiative Shareholders and Investors Schlumberger maintains the highest standards of transparency in disclosing information about the Company to investors. We also think it important to communicate the Company’s values. We believe these efforts help investors fulfill their obligations to make objective financial decisions as well as judgments about environmental and social issues. In 2017, our work to keep investor informed was once again recognized as the Institutional Investor’s Most Honored Company and Best in Energy Sector by IR Magazine. Governments Government and regulatory officials and other stakeholders seek out Schlumberger domain experts for their knowledge and experience in many aspects of the oil and gas industry. Although the Company is politically neutral and does not lobby, we routinely help regulatory officials interested in gaining practical understanding of the technologies and processes that can reduce emissions and carbon footprint. Industry Schlumberger manages and coordinates active relationships with numerous industry organizations. Most notably, we are members of the Petroleum Equipment and Services Association, the American Geosciences Institute Foundation, the American Petroleum Institute, the Society of Petroleum Engineers, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producer. Schlumberger senior executives serve on the boards and/or advisory committees of these organizations. In addition, Schlumberger was the first associate member of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. We hold nonpolitical positions and adhere to a do-not-lobby policy. As a result, these groups frequently call on us for technical advice and guidance. Employment and Human Capital One of our greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce, with men and women of many nationalities and backgrounds working together and sharing common objectives. Our long-standing commitment to national, cultural, and gender diversity fosters a corporate culture that is global in outlook yet local in practice. We attract top performers from the countries where we work, and this broad range of perspectives enables us to better understand national issues, respond to local concerns, and deliver services that meet the expectations and requirements of our stakeholders and customers. Research and Innovation Through a global network of Research and Engineering centers, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, reduce E&P costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve recovery, and increase asset value while also accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner. Since 2008, our Early Stage Technology Corporate Venture group has supported external innovation by co-investing and codeveloping promising technologies with start-up companies in a broad range of disciplines, including technologies such as nanocrystalline cellulose, wireless power, high-pressure mass spectrometry, robotics, automation and control, and cybersecurity—all of which are being actively pursued. More recently, we have invested in technologies around waste heat recovery and decarbonization, emissions monitoring and control, and renewable energy. In 2017, we also invested in Peloton Technologies, a Silicon Valley start-up company that is developing a vehicle “platooning” system that enables commercial trucks to operate at close following distances with the goal of improving safety and fuel efficiency. The system has shown fuel savings of more than 7% when platooning using industry standard tests: 4.5% for the lead truck, and 10% for the following truck. At the Southwest Research Institute in Texas, the Schlumberger Research and Corporate Venture Groups collaborated with the Environmental Defense Fund to test a variety of technologies for the application of detecting methane leaks from equipment in the upstream oil and gas sector. The tests highlighted two open-path detection systems that are powered by solar panels. These systems upload data automatically to the cloud and can be commercialized at well sites without significant existing infrastructure. Technology Watch, a component of our University Relations program, identifies opportunities for commercializing game-changing technology and connects the most promising university teams with the Schlumberger Corporate Ventures group. Technologies currently being watched include drilling and treatment fluids that reduce our industry’s environmental footprint, advanced materials and chemistry for extreme environments, renewable energy, energy efficiency, nanotechnology, robotics, mechatronics, automation, autonomous vehicles and the mobility transformation, power management and energy storage, and data analytics. We are founding members of the NorTex Alliance of Petroleum Universities, which includes leading universities in Norway and Texas that are conducting applied research on carbon storage and reuse in operations to improve hydrocarbon recovery. As one of four founding companies that established the Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP) at Stanford University in 2002, Schlumberger has committed nearly USD 25 million in collaboration with 40 institutions worldwide that have collectively committed more than USD 188 million. GCEP seeks ways to supply energy to meet the changing needs of the growing world population but also protects the environment. The project manages a portfolio of energy research programs to develop technologies that are efficient, cost-effective when deployed on a large scale, and environmentally benign. The broad portfolio has led to the formation of several high-profile start-up companies. University Relations Our University Relations program helps develop technical leaders and positively influence science and energy technology worldwide. Internally, we are aligning University Relations with our new way of working by focusing on efficiency and reliability.  In 2017, we continued to attract talented university graduates; advance education and research in engineering, manufacturing, science, and technology; promote academic entrepreneurship; support technology transfer; foster corporate, social, and environmental responsibility through university partnerships; and become change agents in communities by directly supporting education programs in STEM subjects. We have many ongoing collaborations with universities that are directly relevant to the technical challenges facing the oil and gas industry. Approximately half of our collaborations are related to software development, one-third to advanced materials, and one-fifth to robotics, mechatronics, and automation. They include technologies for deepwater operations, such as the development of subsea engineering education programs, footprint reduction in operations to extract unconventional resources, materials and chemistries for extreme operating environments, technologies to improve the accuracy of surface and subsurface measurements, and high performance computing and data analytics. Many members of the Schlumberger leadership team serve on university boards around the world. Our representatives also serve on faculty or deans’ industry advisory boards, departmental industry affiliates committees, and student project committees at the undergraduate and graduate levels. We continue to sponsor academic chairs and invest in scholarships either through direct financial aid or in the form of tools and training. We also support competitions organized by professional societies, such as the American Association of Petroleum Geologists Imperial Barrel Award and the Society of Exploration Geologists Geoscientists Without Borders. Members of the Schlumberger leadership team serve on university boards around the world. Our Management on University Advisory Boards 24  19  Schlumberger  Number of  executives  universities  Performance Data 40 60 Universities Collaborations (research) (research) 708 30 687 Universities Collaborations Interns (education) (education) (education) Recruiting Schlumberger believes in meritocracy, early responsibility, and promotion from within. We provide a challenging workplace and encourage fair employment practices. We also offer equal opportunities to all our employees. Hiring for Success Our recruiting strategy is based on a long-term vision. We hire the best talent globally. Our investment in the accelerated development of our people by exposing trainees to multiple experiences across a variety of locations and operations helps us develop an agile workforce and the next generation of business leaders. In 2017, we hired approximately 740 interns from top universities and recruited 1,600 graduates, 33% of which were women. The candidates came from all disciplines of study and worked in field operations, applied research, engineering, manufacturing, business, sales, finance, legal, and human resources.  Social Impact Challenge  Working in conjunction with the Society of Women Engineers, the Schlumberger recruiting team in North America sponsored a Serve 2 Succeed social impact challenge by encouraging section members and partners to volunteer in their communities and turn ideas into positive real-world impact. Over a five-week period in fall 2017, 754 volunteers from 12 universities participated in 154 volunteer events, contributing a combined total of 504 hours of volunteer time. Winners of the 2017 challenge were the Colorado School of Mines in the category for Most Volunteering Events; Tulane University for Best Video Content; and Texas Tech University for Best Social Impact Performance. For more information, please visit www.s2schallenge.com/ Corporate Sponsor of the Year Schlumberger received the Penn State Corporate Sponsor of the Year Award, which recognizes a corporation that has demonstrated extraordinary generosity in promotion and support of Pennsylvania State University. Recipients are selected based on consistency of giving, level of impact across the university, and support for areas of greatest need. Schlumberger’s technical and recruiting teams are working to expand and strengthen the relationship with Penn State through greater technical collaboration and improved recruiting. Veteran Program In January 2017, the newly formed Schlumberger Veteran Engagement Team launched a Veteran Program. The program is an evolution of the veteran initiative started by Cameron in 2014 before it was acquired by Schlumberger in 2016, and empowers veterans through recovery and transition—two fundamental issues many returning service members face today. The Schlumberger Veteran Engagement Team made multiple visits to military bases throughout the United States to provide transitioning service members with an in-depth overview of the oil and gas industry, Schlumberger, and the types of careers that the Company offers.  In August, Schlumberger hosted its first Military Open House and Hiring Event in Midland, Texas. Several veterans drove more than 12 hours from other states to attend the event. Among the 17 veteran candidates who attended, 14 were presented with job offers. Recruiting by the Numbers 310,000 60+ 471 55+ Job Applicants Countries Universities Disciplines Recruited Veterans to OTC Schlumberger provided a rare opportunity for more than two dozen military veterans to attend the Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) in Houston in May to learn about the oil and gas industry. A small group among the contingent was invited to the Company’s Houston headquarters for breakfast and a high-level presentation on several unconventional drilling techniques. Several Schlumberger employees volunteered to chaperone the veterans during their visit to OTC to explain some of the technologies and services we provide for our customers. ANZAC Day  ANZAC Day, a national day of remembrance in Australia, New Zealand, and other countries in the region is observed annually in April to honor members of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps. In 2017, our Veteran Engagement Team was invited by the Australian Consulate to attend this event along with local community leaders and government officials. Training and Development Our investment in employee training and development is one of the largest among oilfield services companies. High-quality training is fundamental to the success of our employees, as well as to the success of our business.   Training and development are continuous processes at Schlumberger. Training is delivered through classroom-based instruction, live simulations at learning centers, self-paced learning using the latest interactive technologies, and on-the-job education. Development opportunities include coaching, mentoring, and cross-training through career mobility to expose employees to new roles, geographies, business segments, and functions.  Depending on job position, all our employees participate in a variety of training modules. All employees prepare annual training and development plans with their managers and agree on specific actions for the year. Employees are also evaluated on “self.development” during their annual appraisal, which is part of our Commitment Mindset in the Schlumberger Blue Print in Action–Our Code of Conduct. Our goals are to foster partnerships between employees and the Company, and create value for employees by enabling them to keep their skills current and develop their talents to their full potential.  We also offer a number of internships for students, and many of our people started with Schlumberger this way. Interns generally progress through a period of intensive off-the-job technical training or receive on-the-job training interspersed with formal seminars. HSE Training In 2017, we deployed initiatives to improve HSE training delivery methods by using a learner-centered training approach to provide more participatory teaching methods. This new approach to training includes a combination of micro-learning videos, group discussions, virtual reality, activities, role-play, practice, and brainstorming. For computer-based training, personnel have access to an online application that provides a platform for interactive training and includes self-study and assessments to complete the required certifications. Throughout their careers, personnel are assigned training, re-certifications or refresher training based on their specific roles and responsibilities, work environment, geographic location, and activity risks. Employee Development Opportunities are provided for employees to develop their full potential through a combination of training and experience during a progression of roles. For certain positions, our goal is to transfer employees to new roles every two to three years. Our borderless career philosophy means we support multiple flexible career paths; we take risks on people by developing them across functions, businesses, and geographies. We provide employees with the necessary training to enable them to fulfill the requirements of their current role or position.  Learning Centers Our global network of learning centers is busy year-round. Training programs include technical, safety, personal development, business, and managerial courses as well as on-the-job training. New oilfield trainees follow a fixed-step training program that lasts three years, and all employees are offered courses that last from several days to 12 weeks, or are multiyear. NExT NExT, a Schlumberger company, provides capability, competency, and professional development services for the oil and gas industry. With a portfolio of over 700 courses, training programs, and competency services covering technical and software skills, NExT assists in developing the petrotechnical expertise needed to meet today’s increasingly complex industry challenges. NExT has access to more than 3,000 instructors teaching across every E&P discipline. On average, NExT teaches over 15,000 oil and gas industry professionals each year at Schlumberger locations in 85 countries around the globe. Employee Engagement Engage to Excel is company-wide program to measure and improve employee engagement and performance. The survey provides employees around the world with an opportunity to suggest ways to improve teamwork and create a work environment where Schlumberger people are inspired to give their best. During 2017, teams throughout the Company implemented more than 20,000 action plans to help improve the 12 conditions that, proven by Gallup, drive high engagement and performance. This was our second year conducting the survey and we achieved a 91% participation rate, a slight improvement from the 2016 participation rate. Knowledge Management The approach to knowledge management at Schlumberger encourages employees around the globe to share their expertise across the full spectrum of the Company’s day-to-day activities, including topics such as health, safety, and environmental concerns during our operations and best practices across all domains. Using established knowledge management systems and processes, Schlumberger employees address the technical challenges of the oil and gas industry. Within this strong culture of knowledge sharing, the Schlumberger approach to knowledge management enables people to connect, collaborate, and learn from one another daily. In 2017, our employees viewed two million pieces of vetted information in the corporate knowledge base, and accessed more than 29,000 entries in our internal encyclopedia over 43 million times since its inception. To facilitate networking within the Company and encourage knowledge sharing, every employee maintains a curriculum vitae on our intranet, and these are accessed more than 8.5 million times annually.  For the 12th year in a row, Schlumberger was a winner of the Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises (MAKE) study—the international benchmark for world-class knowledge organizations. Overall rankings are based on a company's performance in eight individual categories. In 2017, Schlumberger was voted No. 1 for creating an enterprise knowledge-driven culture. The global award recognizes organizations that outperform their peers in creating shareholder wealth by transforming tacit and explicit enterprise knowledge and intellectual capital into superior products, services, or solutions.  Knowledge Sharing Number of Times Employee CVs 8,543,975 Are Viewed Number of Times Employees Have Viewed Database Info  14,984,698  Total Number of Objects in Knowledge Base  2,176,832  Number of Entries in Corporate Encyclopedia  29,000  Total Number of Times Encyclopedia Has Been Accessed  16,000,000  Total Downloads of Technical Articles  182,000  Employees Involved in Forums, Newsletters and Workshops  31,000  Number of Live Webinar Viewers  39,000  Number of Webinars Downloaded  65,000  Number of Webinars  700  Number of Bulletin Board Posts  108,000  Number of Bulletin Board Replies  219,000  Diversity Our people are our main asset. Making diversity a business priority has given us access to the best people, no matter where they were born. Schlumberger sees diversity of its workforce as an important part of its cultural philosophy and a business imperative because it enables the Company to serve clients anywhere in the world. We attract top performers from the countries where we work, and this broad range of perspectives enables us to better understand national issues, respond to local concerns, and deliver services that meet the unique expectations and requirements of our stakeholders and customers. National and Cultural Diversity One of our greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce, with men and women of many nationalities and backgrounds working together and sharing common objectives. Schlumberger recruits and develops people in alignment with our business objectives and proportional to the revenue derived from the countries in which we work. Our long-standing commitment to national and cultural diversity fosters a culture that is global in outlook yet local in practice, and this permeates every layer of the Company, including every level of management. Management Diversity Employees from non-Western nationalities and emerging countries are now integrated into every level of the workforce, including senior management. The composition of our Board of Directors also reflects the diversity of the Company—among our 10 directors, three of which are women, four are citizens of the United States, and the others are citizens of Norway, Argentina and the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Russia and Saudi Arabia.  Age Diversity Ongoing changes in the composition of our workforce require an adaptive approach toward recruitment, retention, and the mobility of our employees. Schlumberger is dedicated to hiring, training, and retaining younger professionals to take on the leadership roles being vacated, and we benefit from the perspectives younger employees bring to the Company. Gender Diversity We strive to meet the evolving needs of our workforce in terms of gender equality, work-life balance, and dual-career expectations. We believe this focus helps us maintain our competitive edge. Schlumberger continually monitors equality in compensation for men and women globally across all grades with the goal of maintaining equity. Our gender diversity focus began in 1994, when the Company set an overall target of having women comprise 15% of our workforce by 2015. After achieving this milestone ahead of schedule in 2011, we set a new target of having women comprise 25% of our workforce at all levels of the organization by 2020.  In 2017, women made up 16% of the Schlumberger workforce. Within our salaried population, 19.6% are women. As of December 31, 2017, the following roles were filled by women: three executives reporting to the CEO, one Product Line president, one GeoMarket region manager, and eight vice presidents.  Connecting Women Connect Women’s mission is to empower women to achieve their full potential through networking, mentoring, development, and community outreach. Connect Women has more than 75 local chapters around the world where members and managers meet regularly to exchange ideas and propose concrete actions to facilitate integration and career progression within Schlumberger. In 2017, Connect Women celebrated its 10th anniversary by holding 117 local celebrations across the globe with more than 8,500 attendees. Global activities included 30 webinars, including two webinar series (OWN IT—Be the Best You and Field Series), newsletters, challenges, discussions, and the compilation of videos from around the world into three 10th anniversary videos representing the past, present and future of Connect Women. Advancing Careers In partnership with Heriot-Watt University in the United Kingdom, Schlumberger offers scholarships for women working on their bachelor's or master's degrees in engineering and science. Students must be in their third year or higher and recipients are awarded financial assistance each year for up to three years of study. “Gender Balance is not a nice to have, nor is it about being nice to any particular group in the company. What we ultimately want is to build the best performing company in the world, and to achieve this we have to have a more balanced organization.” – Patrick Schorn, Executive Vice President Wells Revenue Contribution National and Cultural (percentage) 13312331 85+ 140+ Latin Middle East, Europe, North Countries We Nationalities America Asia CIS, Africa America Work In Represented in Our Workforce Nationality Mix Gender Diversity (percentage) (percentage) 12  29  37  21  16  18.3  19.7  12  Latin America  Middle East, Asia  Europe, CIS, Africa  North America  Women in the Company  Women in Management Positions  Women in Junior Management Positions  Women in Top Management Positions  Inspiring Gender Diversity Women’s Leadership Day in Saudi Arabia In conjunction with the Company’s 75th year of doing business in Saudi Arabia, Schlumberger held the first Women’s Leadership Day in the country with more than 100 employees, engineers, professors, young professionals, and students in attendance. Participants engaged in workshops and listened to speakers and panelists discuss topics such as the challenges faced by women in the oil and gas industry, the importance of gender balance, and how to bridge the gap between academia and the oil and gas industry. International Women’s Day in Canada More than 100 Schlumberger employees came together in March to celebrate International Women’s Day in Calgary, Canada. The event featured senior female employees as keynote speakers and panelists and focused on the achievements of female employees, the challenges women continue to face in the workplace, and the benefits of gender parity. During the event, the Company presented the progress Schlumberger has made toward its commitment to have women comprise 25% of its workforce by 2020. International Women’s Day Celebration in Kuwait Employees in the Connect Women Kuwait Chapter celebrated International Women’s Day by participating in outdoor activities and holding competitions to challenge gender stereotypes. More than 60 participants heard inspirational advice from two keynote speakers and spent time networking and sharing stories about their successes and the challenges they face. Mexico Event Inspires Women in Engineering  More than 150 future female engineers from four universities joined Schlumberger for a Women in Technology event in Villahermosa, Mexico. Hosted by a panel of female Schlumberger experts with experience in HR and engineering, the event included workshops on women leaders, the importance of a personal and professional life, the role of women in Mexico, appropriate personal protective equipment for women, and life in the field. International Women’s Day in Mexico In Villahermosa, Mexico, Schlumberger organized a meeting of employees to celebrate International Women’s Day. The guest speaker was Blanca Estela González Valtierra, the first female asset manager in PEMEX, a Mexican oil company and one of our customers. Valtierra, who has broken barriers and paradigms throughout her career, spoke about empowerment, setting and accomplishing career goals, and tearing down barriers to success. Society of Women Engineers Conference in India Schlumberger sponsored a Society of Women Engineers (SWE) conference in Pune, India. SWE works to inspire women to achieve their full potential as engineers and leaders, and to transform the image of the engineering profession. Three female Schlumberger employees spoke at the event and provided engaging presentations on management, the oil and gas industry, and maintaining a proper work-life balance. Schlumberger also set up a booth to provide the more than 600 participants with an opportunity to network with employees and learn more about the Company. Women’s Global Leadership Conference in Energy Schlumberger was a platinum sponsor of the 15th Women’s Global Leadership Conference in Energy. More than 700 women attended the conference, which is designed to inspire the next generation of women in the oil and gas industry. Participants had the opportunity to network with other industry professionals, discuss industry trends, and learn new ways to fine-tune their professional and technical skills. Many senior Schlumberger employees offered their technical and professional expertise as keynote speakers and panelists during the event. Diversity Day in France Employees at the Schlumberger-Riboud Product Center in Clamart, France, held the first Diversity Day to celebrate the center’s diversity of thought with respect to nationality, culture, generations, and handicapped people. The event, held in conjunction with the Connect Women 10th Anniversary Celebration, included a series of conferences aimed at increasing awareness of the importance of diversity in the workplace along with a roundtable discussion, photo exhibit, webinar, and diversity wall.  Working Toward Gender Parity in Russia The Drilling Engineering Center (DEC) in the Russia and Central Asia GeoMarket region has dramatically increased gender diversity among engineers during the past five years. In 2013, women made up merely 10% of engineers at the center, but in 2017, that number reached 40%. The DEC also sought to increase efficiency by updating its hiring and recruiting strategies to create more diverse and efficient teams. Local Initiatives and Global Impact Our approach to Global Stewardship is to focus on local concerns where we can make a positive difference and have the greatest impact. Schlumberger people live and work in 85 countries. Guided by ongoing engagement with a wide range of stakeholders, in each location we strive to align our global business model with national and local priorities. Because we believe that all sustainability is local, wherever we live and work we engage with local institutions, coordinate our activities with community initiatives and objectives, and invest in local capacity building. Spotlight on Indonesia Geothermal Development Located in an area known as the Ring of Fire, Indonesia has an estimated 29 gigawatts of geothermal resources – but only about 1.8 gigawatts, or approximately 7%, has been developed. Developing this geothermal energy requires exceptional technologies and Geothermex, a Schlumberger company, is collaborating with the Indonesia Geothermal Association and the national government to achieve the country’s goal of producing 7.2 gigawatts of geothermal energy by 2030. In 2017, Schlumberger contributed to the development of several geothermal projects in Indonesia by providing integrated drilling services in the KS-Orka Sorik-Marapi field along with drilling services for Star Energy, Supreme Energy, and Pertamina Geothermal Energy. Faculty for the Future Research The diverse research focus of Indonesian Faculty for the Future fellows and alumnae reflects regional challenges and the determination of the women scholars to improve conditions in their home country through science. For example, one fellow is measuring local changes in the Earth’s surface in Indonesia resulting from natural disasters such as landslides and deformation due to subsidence. The resulting measurements can help disaster management planners predict and mitigate the effects of future disaster events. Another fellow evaluated deformation in the upper plate in Java and estimated the strain regime in the area. Outcomes of her research included mapping newly identified active faults capable of producing large earthquakes in Java, resulting in revisions to the national Earthquake Hazard Map of Indonesia. Faculty for the Future Forum In August, the Schlumberger Foundation organized a Faculty for the Future forum in Bandung, Indonesia. During the three-day event, 44 fellows from 32 universities around the world heard from a panel of distinguished keynote speakers – including the first female Indonesian astronaut. Faculty for the Future forums offer an opportunity for the fellows to collaborate, learn from each other, and network with distinguished scientists and other invited speakers. Taking Career Aspirations to the Next Level Female engineering students in Indonesia were encouraged to prepare for a career in the oil and gas industry by participating in an essay competition Schlumberger sponsored. Participants used fewer than 350 words to explain what attracted them to a career in the oil and gas industry and how they planned to prepare themselves. The competition received more than 600 entries, and 48 students among them were selected to participate in a conference on women and engineering. Cross-Company Mentoring Circle Schlumberger participated along with a small group of companies in a workshop conducted by the women’s network of a customer in Indonesia. Called Cross-Company Mentoring Circle, the topic of discussion was “Be the Voice in the Room.” Held in Jakarta, the event aimed to inspire working women to continue reaching their full potential and to make a contribution in the working environment. The customer’s women's network and its Cross-Company Mentoring Circle are a manifestation of the company’s Our stewardship activities in Indonesia are concentrated around four socioeconomic pillars: human capital development, national capacity building, natural disaster research, and land transport safety. commitment to create an organizational environment in which women are involved, empowered, respected, and seen as important contributors. According to research from Grant Thornton, in 2017 Indonesia experienced an increase in the number of women in senior management roles, up from 24% in 2016 to 28% in 2017. HSE for Youth Events In July, 35 children of our employees and contractors attended an HSE for Youth event in the Cikarang Integrated Base where participants learned about road safety and other topics. In November, another HSE for Youth event was held for 60 teens and pre-teens at Balikpapan Timur. The pre-teens learned about road safety, and the teenagers were taught first aid skills. Local Empowerment Wherever we live and work we contribute to social and economic development. Understanding local need is key to developing good relations with local communities. In Sumatra, where a local school lacked an adequate number of trash bins, Schlumberger employees modified an empty plastic drum and turned it into a trash bin for use in the school. We provided a roof for a waste shelter in Kalimantan, and we transported people to the waste shelter three times a week. We collaborated with a local telecommunications provider to erect an antenna that gives Internet access to people living in the Tamapole area in Kalimantan. We also hired 30 local people around our Tamapole base to work on Schlumberger barges as catering staff, security guards, and helpers. Natural Disaster Research Indonesia has to cope with the constant risk of volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis. The World Bank has estimated that 40% of Indonesia’s population – about 90 million people – are vulnerable to disaster. Schlumberger is assisting Indonesia in its quest to become safer by supporting research at Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) in Yogyakarta into natural disaster mitigation. Following the Mount Merapi eruption in 2010, which killed more than 350 people, Schlumberger provided initial funding for a UGM project to create a community-wide early warning system for natural events such as landslides, floods, and volcanic eruptions. We provide ongoing support (USD 3.6 million since 2004) for advanced research by Faculty for the Future fellows – much of which is for natural disaster mitigation and preparedness – and we have partnered with a national metrological agency to enhance early warning systems by maximizing our subsurface data expertise. Driving Safety Reducing driving risks is a top priority in Indonesia, as most fatalities in the oil and gas industry there are related to road accidents. In 2017, Schlumberger employees drove more than 5.1 million miles in the country, equivalent to driving 17 times around the world every month. To increase safety awareness, Schlumberger Duri set up a “seatbelt convincer” at the local police station in the Rokan Hilir area of Riau province and invited people who were applying for a driving license to give it a try. A Schlumberger volunteer explained how the convincer works and discussed the importance of wearing seatbelts while driving. Positive feedback was received from participants and the local police. 2017 Fast Facts Number of Indonesians in 1,050 Schlumberger on overseas assignments to gain work experience Percentage of in-country workforce who are Indonesians Number of miles driven by 5.1 million Schlumberger drivers in Indonesia Number of times Schlumberger 17 times drivers in Indonesia could every month have circled the globe Overall number of traffic deaths 2,500 in Indonesia Number of Indonesian women who are Faculty for the Future fellows Amount of grants provided by USD 3.6 million Schlumberger to Indonesian fellows since 2004 United Nations human development index for men in Indonesia United Nations human development index for women in Indonesia Track Record A number of organizations recognized Schlumberger in 2017 for excellence in innovation and technology development. We also won awards for our work in community building, knowledge management, investor relations, and employee recognition 2017 Awards and Recognition Schlumberger is widely respected for developing technologies that help customers produce oil and gas more efficiently while helping them conserve natural resources and  minimize their environmental footprint. In 2017 we again received numerous awards from industry peers honoring our technology advantage. Our size and geographic reach enables us to make valuable contributions to local economies by hiring locally, building domestic capacity in our supply chains, and offering other forms of support for the communities where we live and work. Many groups have recognized our work in this area. Sustainability Awards Newsweek Newsweek Green Rankings Schlumberger placed 69th in the United States and 122nd worldwide in the 2017 Newsweek Green Rankings. This is an improvement compared with ranking 124th in the United States and 220th worldwide in 2016. Schlumberger placed 1st in the energy sector in the US rankings and 7th in the world energy sector rankings. The rankings feature eight key performance indicators used to assess and measure corporate environmental performance. The Newsweek Green Rankings measure corporate sustainability and environmental impact among 500 of the world's largest publicly traded companies. Based on research from Corporate Knights and Human Impact + Profit Investor Inc., the Newsweek Green Rankings are one of the world's most recognized assessments of corporate environmental performance. Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises (MAKE) 2017 Global MAKE Award For the 12th consecutive year, Schlumberger was winner of the Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises (MAKE) study—the international benchmark for world-class knowledge organizations. Schlumberger placed first in the category of “creating an environment for collaborative enterprise knowledge sharing.” These awards recognize organizations that outperform their peers in creating shareholder wealth by transforming tacit and explicit enterprise knowledge and intellectual capital into superior products, services, or solutions. Teleos, an independent research company in knowledge management and intellectual capital areas, established the MAKE Awards in 1998. Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises (MAKE) 2017 Overall European MAKE Award Schlumberger was awarded the Overall European Make Award for a third time in the past five years. The Company placed first in the category of “creating a knowledge-driven enterprise culture.” This was the 12th consecutive year Schlumberger was voted a winner in the European Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises study. These awards recognize organizations that outperform their peers in creating shareholder wealth by transforming tacit and explicit enterprise knowledge and intellectual capital into superior products, services, or solutions. Teleos, an independent research company in knowledge management and intellectual capital areas, established the MAKE Awards in 1998. Learn more about the Schlumberger track record: www.slb.com/globalstewardship/trackrecord Forbes  America’s Best Employers Forbes ranked Schlumberger 392nd on its 2017 list of America’s Best Employers. The Company was ranked 22nd within the Construction, Oil & Gas Operations, Mining, and Chemicals industries. The complete list of America’s Best Employers includes 500 companies from 25 different industries.  Forbes ranks companies in partnership with Statista, and studies involved survey response collection and analysis applied to a sample of 30,000 employees working for firms or institutions that employ 1,000 or more. National Society of Black Engineers New Corporate Sponsor of the Year The National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) Houston Professionals chapter unanimously selected Schlumberger as their New Corporate Sponsor of the Year. Our support is helping NSBE award more than USD 20,000 in scholarships to at least 10 scholars. The mission of the National Society of Black Engineers is to increase the number of culturally responsible black engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively impact the community. The Wall Street Journal Management Top 250 Rankings 2017 Schlumberger ranked 164th in the Wall Street Journal’s Management Top 250 rankings. Rankings were determined by measuring performance on Customer Service, Employee Engagement and Development, Innovation, Social Responsibility and Financial Strength. Schlumberger scored 5 out of 5 stars for the Innovation category and 4 out of 5 stars in the Social Responsibility category. The Wall Street Journal’s Management Top 250 rankings are based on the Drucker Institute Company rankings, which ranked 693 companies in 2017 based on Customer Service, Employee Engagement and Development, Innovation, Social Responsibility and Financial Strength.  Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Energy Leaders Thomson Reuters ranked Schlumberger as one of the Top 100 Global Energy Leaders in 2017. Companies are selected for this list based on a combination of business metrics and a comprehensive group of risk metrics, as well as technological innovation, news sentiment, and environmental and social factors.  Thomson Reuters is a Canadian media and information provider for financial and risk, legal, tax and accounting, and media markets. Strategy & Global Innovation 1000 Study Schlumberger ranked 140 worldwide in the Strategy & Global Innovation Study, which analyzes spending at the world's 1,000 largest publicly listed corporate R&D spenders. The Company was ranked fifth within the energy sector.  Barron’s World’s Most Admired Companies 2017 Schlumberger ranked 47th on Barron’s Top 100 World’s Most Respected Companies list in 2017. Every year Barron´s surveys professional money managers about their views of the world´s 100 largest companies by market value. SyncForce Ranking the Brands Top 100 is a consolidated ranking based on all globally published brand rankings. IR Magazine Global Top 50 Gold Ranking: 2017 Schlumberger ranked among IR Magazine’s 2017 list of Global Top 50 companies. The magazine assesses how well companies meet international standards of disclosure, transparency, and communication in investor relations. The list includes companies that demonstrate excellence in communicating with their shareholders and get their investor relations (IR) programs right all the time. IR Magazine’s Global Top 50 ranking celebrates companies that demonstrate excellence in communicating with their shareholders and that get their investor relations (IR) programs right all the time. 2017 Best in Sector: Energy In 2017, IR Magazine recognized Schlumberger as the Best in Energy Sector in its Investor Perception Study–United States. IR Magazine is a publication of IR Media Group, a business media company. Originally launched in 1988 by the Economist Group, IR Magazine is known for providing quality insight and a global perspective. Institutional Investor  Schlumberger achieved a first-place ranking from Institutional Investor for Best CEO, Best CFO, Best IRO, Best IR Program and Best Analyst Day under the Oil Services & Equipment sector in the 2017 All America Executive Team Ranking. Schlumberger was also recognized as one of America's Most Honored Companies. To determine the winners, Institutional Investor portfolio managers and sell-side analysts nominated 2,213 US companies for their corporate leadership and investor relations expertise. Institutional Investor is a leading international business-to-business publisher, focused primarily on international finance. Penn State Corporate Sponsor of the Year Award Schlumberger received the Penn State Corporate Sponsor of the Year Award in 2017, which recognizes a corporation that has demonstrated extraordinary generosity in promotion and support of Penn State University. Recipients are selected based on consistency of giving, level of impact across the university, and support for areas of greatest need. Schlumberger’s technical and recruiting teams are working to expand and strengthen the relationship with Penn State through greater technical collaboration and improved recruiting. Petroleum Economist Awards Service Company of the Year Petroleum Economist presented Schlumberger with the Service Company of the Year award in 2017. The award is presented to companies that display the most effective management and development during the judging period and is open to companies providing services to the energy industry, including construction, engineering, and operating services.  Petroleum Economist is a monthly magazine that publishes macro-economic and geopolitical analyses of the energy industry. Employee Recognition Forbes Middle East Magazine Top 100 Executives The Schlumberger Advisor to the CEO, Latin America and Africa, was recognized by the business publication Forbes Middle East, ranking 19th in the publication’s list of Top 100 Executives in the Middle East and North Africa region. Forbes Middle East Magazine features articles and reports about the world of finance and business. Society of Petroleum Engineers International Awards During the 2017 Society of Petroleum Engineers reception and banquet, two Schlumberger employees received the SPE Distinguished Member award, and another employee received the Young Member Outstanding Service award. These awards “recognize those who have made significant technical and professional contributions to the industry, and those who have contributed exceptional service and leadership to the society.” Technology Awards Brazil National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas, and Biofuels Technology Innovation Award Optimization of the Pre-Salt Drilling Process The Schlumberger Brazil Research and Geoengineering Center and Petrobras were jointly honored with the 2017 Technology Innovation Award for Schlumberger’s Optimization of the Pre-Salt Drilling Process. Awarded by the Brazilian National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas, and Biofuels, the Technology Innovation Award encourages and recognizes technologies with applicability in the oil and gas industry. The Brazil National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas, and Biofuels presents the Technology Innovation Award for technologies developed in Brazil by large enterprises in collaboration with Petrobras, the Brazilian national oil company. 2017 World Oil Awards The annual World Oil Awards program recognizes the upstream oil and gas industry’s leading innovations. In 2017, six Schlumberger technologies were honored with industry awards. Best Completion Technology Award: MZ-Xpress Single-Trip Multizone Frac- and Gravel-Pack System Best Deepwater Technology Award: Managed Pressure Drilling Integrated Solution. Best Drilling and Completion Fluids Award: PrimoPAC: The Stable, Reusable Solution for Optimal Openhole Gravel Pack Integrity (M-I SWACO) Best Drilling Technology Award: SpectraSphere Fluid Mapping-While-Drilling Service Best Health, Safety, Environment/Sustainable Development - Offshore Award: ATC VAC Automatic Tank Cleaning with Vacuum Truck (M-I SWACO) Best Visualization & Collaboration Award: OptiWell Well Construction Performance Service The World Oil Awards recognize and honor the upstream industry’s top innovations and innovators. E&P Magazine 2017 Meritorious Awards for Engineering Innovation The following awards were presented to technologies spanning a broad range of disciplines and addressed several problems that pose roadblocks to efficient operations. The resulting technological advances opened new and better avenues to the challenging process of finding and producing hydrocarbons worldwide. In 2017, Schlumberger received awards in the following categories: Artificial Lift • Shuttle Rigless ESP Replacement System (ZEiTECS) Drill Bits • Axeblade Ridged Diamond Element Bit (Smith Bits) Drilling Fluids/Stimulation • OpenPath Sequence Diversion Stimulation Service Drilling Systems • Powerdrive Orbit Rotary Steerable System Formation Evaluation • Saudi Aramco/Schlumberger Partnership — 3D Mapping of reservoir saturation from crosswell EM in horizontal wells Hydraulic Fracturing/Pressure Pumping System • Avantguard Advanced Flowback Services Intelligent Systems and Components • Maze Microfluidic SARA Analysis 