Human Rights Schlumberger is committed to conducting business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity. Our commitment to respecting human rights is reflected in our Code of Conduct, Human Rights Position Statement, Working Conditions Requirements, and other policies and procedures, and covers all Schlumberger business activities as well as our supply chain, including suppliers, contractors and labor agents. People are at the core of everything we do, and we will continuously work to improve the respect for human rights across our company. We implement a cross-functional leadership approach in our global operations that enables us to align our business priorities and our core values on human rights issues. We recognize the relevance of the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and adhere to international standards, including: » the International Bill of Rights, » the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, » the eight fundamental Conventions as designated by the International Labour Organization, » the U.N. Global Compact ten principles, and » the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. We have identified five key human rights focus areas relevant to our global operations, as reflected in the chart at right. We defined these human rights focus areas based on (i) performance data collected in our global QHSE business system; (ii) a third-party supply chain risk assessment; (iii) application of the “Human Rights Compliance Assessment Quick Check” tool; and (iv) dialogue with our employees, investors, and customers through IPIECA and other external stakeholder groups. We believe these focus areas cover Schlumberger’s salient human rights issues, as defined in the U.N. Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. Our Human Rights Focus Areas We have identified five key human rights areas relevant to our global operations, as reflected in the below chart. IN THE WORKPLACE  LOCAL COMMUNIITES  INDIGENOUS PEOPLES  SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS  SUPPLY CHAIN  » Decent work » Non discrimination » Gender diversity » Safe working conditions » Grievance mechanisms  » Economic and social disruption » Environmental impacts » Cumulative impacts  » Recognition of rights » Respectful interactions  » Employee safety in high risk environments » Use of force by security providers » Decent work for those in security  » Decent work » Prevention of modern slavery » Safe working conditions » Avoidance of conflict minerals  In the Workplace Schlumberger’s Working Conditions Requirements, first published in 2005 and updated in 2019, promote respect for the rights and welfare of our employees and those working within our supply chain. These Requirements define the general principles that inspire Schlumberger’s approach to human rights in the workplace, including: » Employment is freely chosen. » Child labor shall not be used. » No discrimination is practiced. » No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed. » Fair wages are paid. » No worker should pay a fee for a job. » Freedom of association is respected. » Complaints and feedback systems for workers are in place. » Working conditions are safe and hygienic. Beyond specific country legal and regulatory requirements, our Working Conditions Requirements provide a common baseline for the expected treatment of employees, contractors, temporary workers, trainee workers, migrant workers, and foreign contracted workers. We expect contractors, suppliers and agents to respect human rights in the workplace and comply with the Requirements. In addition, Schlumberger obeys the employment laws of the countries in which it operates and does not engage in discrimination based on race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, ethnicity, disability, religion, union membership, or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as promotions, rewards, and access to training, as indicated in our Code of Conduct and our Human Rights Position Statement. Local Communities We respect the rights of local communities and work with our customers to create shared values and to align roles and responsibilities on human rights issues. Recognizing that all direct community interfacing is typically the responsibility of the customer, we are nevertheless committed to identifying, preventing, mitigating, and resolving social risks and impacts; optimizing employment and contracting opportunities in the communities where we operate; and ensuring that community concerns, issues, or problems are taken seriously. We identify, assess and manage potential impacts and risks to local communities using two key processes. First, through the Schlumberger Social Risk Assessment process, we collect information during initial planning phases, analyze social hazards in terms of risks to people and projects, and then develop appropriate responses for use in implementation, monitoring and evaluation phases. In addition, in our projects with a large social footprint, we implement our Social and Environmental Management Standard, which recognizes the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability as a key point of reference. Our standard provides a framework for managing our local impacts and maintaining respect for the rights of individuals and groups in local communities and provides specific guidance in key technical areas. Indigenous Peoples Schlumberger recognizes the rights of distinct peoples living in distinct regions to self-determined development and control of ancestral lands. We look to build strong relationships, respect, and opportunities between Schlumberger and the communities where oil and gas activities are undertaken on lands traditionally owned by or under customary use of indigenous peoples. For example, our policies and procedures in Canada include an Indigenous Relations Policy, an Indigenous Engagement Leadership Statement, and a Local and Indigenous Participation Implementation Plan. We have implemented a self-identification program for our Canada-based employees who identify as Metis, Inuit or First Nations. We also require Canada-based employees to complete indigenous awareness training, which was completed by 95% of our Canada-based employees as of year-end 2019. In Western Canada, we have also established joint-venture partnerships with the Sahtú, Inuvialuit, and Fort McKay First Nations to deliver oilfield services. Areas Covered by the Social and Environmental Management Standard Social Community Relations Management of Nuisance Local Content Social Investment Indigenous Peoples and Cultural Heritage Land Acquisition and Land Access Environmental Waste Management Water Resource Management Management of Greenhouse Gases and Air Emissions Environmental Emergency Management Land and Biodiversity Management Hazardous Materials Management Schlumberger was also one of the first oil and gas services companies in Australia to develop a Reconciliation Action Plan, in order to develop and strengthen relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples of Australia. We also continue to participate in the Supply Chain Program for First Australians, which is designed to improve the capacity of local suppliers and empower and upskill the local Indigenous workforce. In 2019, more than 15% of our third-party expenditures in Australia were with majority-owned First Australians and incumbent suppliers with traceable Indigenous engagement. Security Arrangements Due to the nature of our global business, sometimes we operate in dangerous areas. Our employees, their families, contractors, third parties, and our company assets may be exposed to security-related threats, including armed conflict, criminality and civil unrest. Schlumberger puts in place security arrangements that are appropriate under the circum.stances to protect people and assets in a manner respecting human rights, and that are consistent with applicable laws and international standards, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Where appropriate, we apply IPIECA guidance for operating in areas of conflict. We carry out assessments on threats and vulnerabilities in each country where we operate. Our objective is to reduce security risks to a level deemed “as low as reasonably practicable” through effective implementation of fundamental and risk-based controls and active continuous monitoring of security conditions.  In line with our Personnel and Asset Security Standard, our security risk evaluation process identifies security risks, the potential for violence in each operational location, and available human rights records of public and private security providers, paramilitaries, and law enforcement agencies. All security providers retained by Schlumberger are required to adhere to our Code of Conduct, and we conduct periodic audits to verify compliance with our policies and procedures. Supply Chain Schlumberger sources from suppliers that work in a professional, ethical, competitive, and cost-effective manner consistent with our policies, procedures and business objectives. We require that our suppliers, contractors and labor agents comply with the laws of the countries in which they operate, or with industry guidelines where they exist and are more stringent than local law. We prohibit any use or contracting, directly or indirectly, of child labor, forced labor, human trafficking, or any other form of modern slavery. In 2018, Schlumberger formed a cross-functional human rights working group under the leadership of our Vice President of Global Stewardship, Vice President of Global Procurement and Director of Compliance. This group oversees our efforts to identify and prevent exploitative work practices and modern slavery in our business and supply chain. In 2019, we commissioned an independent risk analytics firm to assess the risk of modern slavery in our supply chain, as discussed below. CRITICAL SUPPLIERS We classify suppliers as “critical” if they provide materials, components, or services that may significantly influence one or more aspects of Schlumberger products and service performance. This includes elements such as safety, technology, and competitiveness, as well as compliance with operations integrity, HSE, and ethics standards. We conduct routine audits of our critical suppliers, which may incorporate supplier performance, finance, contract, HSE, quality, and ethics and compliance components, including human rights and labor questions. All suppliers, contractors, and agents must be approved and managed in accordance with internal requirements. Suppliers 44,389 2,712 Total Suppliers Critical Suppliers (absolute number) (absolute number) 48% Critical Suppliers (percentage of total spend) SUPPLY CHAIN HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT In 2019, Schlumberger completed a high-level risk assessment, performed by an independent risk analytics firm, across our global operations to identify the primary human rights risks in our supply chain in an effort to prevent any indirect use of modern slavery. This assessment covered all of our active direct suppliers—meaning those suppliers who provide goods and services directly to Schlumberger—across various purchasing categories and countries in which our suppliers do business. We used two key indicators—country risk and category risk—to analyze key supplier categories and markets for use of enhanced supplier due diligence processes. Country risk refers to the relative risk exposure of our suppliers based on each supplier’s invoicing or service delivery location, based on the strength of national legal frameworks related to human rights, country-level implementation and enforcement capabilities, and the prevalence and severity of human rights violations and modern slavery within the country. Category risk refers to the relative risk exposure of our suppliers based on the materiality of human rights and modern slavery risks for each industry, operation-type or other “category” to which they are assigned. 2005 Developed guidelines related to working conditions and eligibility for supply chain contractors  2019 2009 Established social responsibility process and began conducting social risk assessments for large-footprint projects in sensitive operating environments 2018 2010 Reviewed 400 statements of Company policy, standards, and guidelines against the Business and Human Rights Matrix developed by the Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights 2017 2011 Completed a review of customer and peer human rights statements and policies to improve our understanding of the United Nations’ Protect, Respect, and Remedy framework 2015 2013 Introduced a new Social and Environmental Management Standard that recognizes International Finance Corporation Performance Standards as a key point of reference for our large-footprint projects 2014 Commissioned a research consultancy,  Schlumberger Human Rights Position  Became an associate member of IPIECA,  Initiated alignment of our Global  Revised our Personnel and Asset Security  to assess the risk of modern slavery and  Statement approved by our Board of  the global oil and gas industry association  Stewardship program with the United  Standard to incorporate references  labor exploitation in our supply chain  Directors and made public  for environmental and social issues, the  Nations Sustainable Development Goals  to the Voluntary Principles on Security  first oilfield services company to do so  and Human Rightss  We are assessing our key findings related to modern slavery from this supplier risk assessment as part of our larger corporate risk assessment program. For additional details, please see the Corporate Governance section of this report titled “Managing Corporate Risk” on page 5. We are also using findings from this supplier risk assessment to inform a variety of risk mitigation measures, including enhanced due diligence for suppliers exposed to the highest risk, local supplier engagement activities in certain countries, and training for internal procurement teams. We will continue to review and strengthen our processes to prevent, identify and manage modern slavery risks in our supply chain. CONFLICT-FREE MINERALS Schlumberger is committed to purchasing parts and products containing minerals that have been procured through a validated conflict-free supply chain, avoiding the use of minerals that have financed conflict in designated countries, and we expect our suppliers to abide by the same standard. When a validated conflict-free supply chain or a robust mineral-tracing program is established, we expect our direct suppliers to procure minerals using only that validated supply chain. If a direct supplier provides us with minerals that have not been procured through a validated supply chain or that are found to have financed conflict, we will recommend that the supplier seek an alternative means of sourcing to prevent possible termination of our relationship with that supplier. Stakeholder Engagement To learn about the changing needs and expectations of our stakeholders, we actively listen to stakeholder feedback and align our business processes to conform to local and national priorities. Our stakeholder engagement takes many forms. We meet regularly with investors, join industry initiatives and partnerships, participate in academic forums and, in consultation with our customers, we often participate in local community meetings. Customers Continuous engagement with customers enables us to appreciate their needs and expectations around many issues in the oil and gas industry. Through customer engagement, we can focus our investment in technologies and solutions that are tailored to meet market requirements while also remaining aligned with our Global Stewardship priorities. Strategic planning demands that we respond to environmental and other concerns in a manner that leads toward our sustainable existence in the communities where we live and work. Employees As of September 30, 2020, Schlumberger employed approximately 82,000 people representing over 170 nationalities. We sell products and services in more than 120 countries. We are deeply committed to nationality and gender diversity throughout the Company. Our employees are the most professional women and men in the oil and gas services industry. We consider them to be the most credible ambassadors of Schlumberger, and one of the Company’s most important stakeholder groups. Communities We strive to make a marked and positive impact wherever we work. The results of our efforts touch our employees, contractors, suppliers, and customers as well as the communities in which we live and work. Schlumberger trucks and equipment are often the most visible aspect of our presence in these communities, and our impact is frequently measured by local populations in increased potholes, dust, and traffic noise. Our direct impact on local economies can also be measured in taxes, customs tariffs, the wages we pay to local workers, the promotion of our strong health and safety culture, and the wide range of initiatives we undertake to build supply chain capacity in communities. Universities Schlumberger has a long history of partnering with universities. Our relationships with universities and other academic institutions around the world contribute to developing our products and services and provide a plentiful source of potential employees. These partnerships are part of our Global Stewardship network, our program to manage our impact on the wider environment and in the communities where we live and work. Suppliers Our Supply Chain team pursues relationships with suppliers based on cooperation, trust, reliability, and communication. We procure products and services through manufacturers and suppliers that demonstrate high standards for quality, service, pricing, performance, after-sales support, and supply chain management. The Company continues to examine the feasibility of supplier capacity building programs in several countries. Investors Schlumberger maintains the highest standards of transparency in disclosing information about the Company to investors. We believe these efforts help investors make objective financial decisions as well as judgments about environmental and social issues. In 2019, our work to keep investors informed was acknowledged by Institutional Investor when Schlumberger was once again recognized as a Most Honored Company. Schlumberger uses many avenues to engage investors who seek perspective on the Company. For example: » At speeches and conference presentations, Schlumberger’s CEO and senior managers explain our corporate strategy and the technical means by which we are carrying it out. » Conference calls that follow each quarterly earnings release provide context and color about our financial and operating results, and we answer questions from institutional investors and analysts. ESG roadshow meetings provide investors with annual updates on our sustainability focus and progress. » Face-to-face meetings at conferences and at Schlumberger and investor offices create the personal contact essential to investors’ understanding of the Company. » Tours of Company facilities worldwide—including North America, the Middle East, and Europe—provide investors with first-hand experience of our operations. » Our Investor Relations website offers complete financial performance data, archived press releases, replays of conference calls, and our annual report and proxy statement. » Senior Investor Relations staff responds promptly to market inquiries. » Through our annual Global Stewardship Report, we update investors on our environmental, social and governance performance, initiatives and progress. Face-to-face meetings and Company site tours were postponed beginning in the first quarter of 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Governments and Policy Makers Government and regulatory officials and other policy makers seek out Schlumberger domain experts for their knowledge of and experience in many aspects of the oil and gas industry. Although the Company is politically neutral and does not lobby, we routinely assist regulatory officials who are interested in gaining practical understanding of the technologies and processes that can reduce emissions and our industry’s carbon footprint. We engage with policy makers in a wide variety of capacities including, but not limited to: »  In 2019, we attended an Atlantic Council European Energy Security Roundtable meeting held in Brussels. » We are sponsors and active participants in the National Academy of Sciences Roundtable Project on Unconventional Hydrocarbon Development. » We are a founding member of the Global CCS Institute and have participated in numerous international meetings. » Through our relationship with the Petroleum Equipment and Services Association, twice a year Schlumberger trains Foreign Service Officers from the U.S. State Department on how the energy industry can best work with local communities to drive engagement and value.  » We are a founding member of the OPEC Fund for International Development’s Energy Access Program and continue to engage with the program as its mission and associated projects evolve. » We are members of the Bloomberg Sustainable Business International Advisory Board, which has oversight on the topics, guest speakers, and other activities associated with the Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summits around the globe. » We are a member of the National Petroleum Council (NPC), which provides advice on energy sourcing and energy security to the U.S. Department of Energy. » We actively participated in the NPC Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS) study requested in 2017 by the U.S. Secretary of Energy, to provide analysis on the potential of, and challenges associated with, CCUS technology and infrastructure. The report was finalized and published in 2019 and is available here.  » We actively participated in the NPC Arctic Potential study requested in 2018 by the U.S. Secretary of Energy, to reassess the 2015 Arctic Potential study and provide views on how the current regulatory environment could be enhanced. The report was finalized and published in 2019 and is available here. Additionally, we work with various think tanks and non-governmental organizations—some of which influence policy— to drive ESG change across our industry. These include: » Solar Impulse Foundation Partnership » Aspen Global Energy Forum » Low Emission Research Centre – SINTEF » Center for Global Energy Policy – Columbia University » Baker Institute for Public Policy – Center for Energy Studies – Rice University » Natural Gas Initiative & Seismicity Research Program – Stanford University » World Petroleum Council » The Carbon Capture and Storage Association Industry Schlumberger manages and coordinates active relationships with numerous industry organizations. Most notably, we are members of the Petroleum Equipment & Services Association, American Geosciences Institute Foundation, American Petroleum Institute, Society of Petroleum Engineers, American Association of Petroleum Geologists, International Association of Oil & Gas Producers, and IPIECA. Schlumberger senior executives serve on the boards and/or advisory committees of these organizations. We hold nonpolitical positions and adhere to a do-not.lobby policy. As a result, these groups frequently call on us for technical advice and guidance. Additionally, since 2018, Schlumberger has been an active member of the Permian Strategic Partnership, a coalition of leading Permian Basin energy companies who joined to work in partnership with leaders across the region’s communities to address current and future challenges. Areas of focus include making roads safer, improving education, upgrading healthcare, increasing affordable housing, and training the next generation of workers. Schlumberger has been active on the education and housing committees focusing on expanding and strengthening the teacher talent available to Permian public-school students. This supports the development of strong public school leaders and enhanced strategic planning, innovation and execution, while building local partnerships. Reporting on Performance To continuously strengthen and increase transparency around our ESG reporting efforts, Schlumberger uses key sustainability frameworks to guide our non-financial disclosures. These include: » Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, » IPIECA, IOGP, API Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, » Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Standards (SASB), » Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Recommendations, » U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, and » U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Reporting Framework. In 2019, we also engaged with several third-party firms that collect and report on corporate ESG performance, including: » Bloomberg » CDP » FTSE Russell » ISS ESG » MSCI ESG » RobecoSAM » Sustainalytics Employment and Human Capital At Schlumberger, “People First” is the first element of our corporate strategy. We are proud of our meritocratic culture and our commitment to early responsibility and internal promotion. We offer our employees a challenging work environment where they are treated fairly with equal access to opportunities across different business areas and locations, accelerating their development while fostering an agile workforce and the next generation of business leaders. We also recognize that our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain a highly competent and diverse workforce has been the key to our success for many decades. As a service company, we believe it is critical for our people to be able to communicate with our customers in their native languages and to share the values of the people in the countries where we work. We are known as a company with global resources and local expertise, able to understand, respect and work in the local culture of our customers. As such, we recognize that diversity and inclusion is not just the right thing to do—it is a business imperative. It is about attracting the best talent from around the world and enabling creativity and innovation to drive business success. University Collaborations Since 1954, Schlumberger has engaged with universities and colleges around the world to help develop technical leaders, contribute to innovations and research in engineering and energy technology, and resolve challenges facing the energy sector. Our university collaborations focus on digitalization, the development of adaptive business models, artificial intelligence, machine learning, cybersecurity, and virtual reality. Projects include developing technologies to lower artificial lifting cost, increase efficiency in exploration, improve the cost effectiveness of well construction, and reduce the emissions footprint of oil and gas extraction operations. Our university engagement initiatives play a key role in our recruiting and sustainability strategies. Through these collaborations, we support education and research in STEM subjects, and we attract talented, local university graduates from the countries in which we work. We also select certain institutions for our University Ambassador Program, through which we assign a senior-level Schlumberger manager as an “Ambassador” to an institution targeted for recruiting, research, community outreach and technology transfer opportunities. We also regularly sponsor academic chairs and scholarships, and support competitions organized by professional societies, such as the American Association of Petroleum Geologists Imperial Barrel Award and the Geoscientists Without Borders project of the Society of Exploration Geologists. In 2019, we received approximately 151,000 job applicants across 69 countries and 601 universities, encompassing more than 55 disciplines. In addition, Schlumberger leaders serve on university boards around the world. Our representatives also serve on advisory boards, departmental industry affiliates’ committees, and student project committees at the undergraduate and graduate levels. As of December 31, 2019, 18 Schlumberger senior leaders sat on advisory boards at 11 universities. Partnership with Arts et Métiers in France Arts et Métiers, one of France’s oldest engineering schools specializing in mechanical, industrial and energy engineering, is a participant in Schlumberger’s University Ambassador Program. In 2019, we recruited more interns and graduates from Arts et Métiers than from any other university in France. We also organized a full-day working session among 16 laboratory research directors from the university together with geographical, business and technical leaders from Schlumberger, in order to discuss common technical interests, projects, and gender balance initiatives. Partnership with University of Guyana In Guyana, we have partnered with the University of Guyana to encourage energy technology education and develop local talent for work in the country’s growing oil, gas and energy industry. This partnership demonstrates our commitment to investing in, and having a positive impact on, the communities where we operate. In 2019, Schlumberger donated several Petrel* E&P software platform licenses, together with student workstations, to the Faculty of Engineering and Technology’s new geotechnical computer lab. Access to this technology helps the university train students on our software platform—widely used in the industry to analyze subsurface data from exploration to production—so that upon graduation they will be better equipped to enter the workforce. Read more about these efforts at here. Our Management on University Advisory Boards 151,000 Job Applicants 601 Universities 18 Schlumberger Senior Leaders 11 Number of Universities Recruiting by the Numbers 69 Countries 55+ Disciplines Recruited * Mark of Schlumberger Veteran Program The Schlumberger veteran program seeks to empower veterans through successful recovery and transition after military service. Through this program, Schlumberger representatives host or participate in veteran community engagement events at universities, military bases and certain Schlumberger facilities. The program is active in the United States, Canada, and Ukraine. In 2019, through the veteran program, we presented on how to attract, recruit, engage and retain veterans at the Veterans in Energy Forum in Washington, D.C. and the Permian Strategic Partnership Workforce Development Committee in Midland, Texas. We also sponsored the Rice University Veteran Business Battle in Houston, Texas, to support and promote veteran entrepreneurship, and participated in a 24-hour indoor cycling competition to raise funds for Homes for Heroes, a non-profit veteran service organization that builds houses for homeless veterans in Canada and the United States. We also implemented our registered apprentice program through the U.S. Department of Labor, through which qualified veterans receive a monthly stipend from the U.S. Veterans Administration while working in an apprenticeship at Schlumberger. Since 2018, Schlumberger has been recognized as a “Military Friendly Employer” each year by a division of VIQTORY, which rates companies on their programs to recruit and retain veteran employees. Learning and Development Our investment in employee training and development is one of the largest among oilfield services companies. As a technology company, our success is determined by our people, their technical expertise, and their drive to continuously strive for excellence. Since our early days, Schlumberger has consistently invested in training and development, while continually cultivating our learning mindset to adapt to a changing world and evolving technologies. Learning is available to all full- and part-time employees and contractors around the world. It is delivered through classroom-based and virtual instruction, live simulations at learning centers, self-paced learning using the latest interactive technologies, and on-the-job education. We are continuously investing in learning technologies to expand access to learning to all our employees. Development opportunities include coaching, mentoring, and cross training through career mobility to expose employees to new roles, geographies, business lines, and functions. All employees are encouraged to take an active part in their learning journey and be continuous learners. They prepare annual training and development plans with their managers and agree on specific actions for the year. Employees are also evaluated on “self-development” during their annual appraisal, which is part of our Commitment Mindset from our Code of Conduct. Our goals are to foster collaboration between employees and the Company and create value for employees by enabling them to maintain their current skills while also developing their talents to reach their full potential. We also offer several internships for students, and many of our employees started with Schlumberger this way. Interns generally progress through a period of intensive off-the-job technical training or receive on-the-job training interspersed with formal seminars. In 2019, we provided more than 900 internships to students from top universities around the world. HSE Training HSE training continues to be a top priority at Schlumberger. For many topics, we use a learner-centered training approach that encourages active participation and incorporates a combination of micro-learning videos, group discussions, virtual reality, and role play. Employees also have access to an online platform for interactive training that uses self-study and assessments to help them fulfill their required certifications. Throughout their careers, employees are assigned training, re-certification, or refresher training based on their specific roles and responsibilities, work environment, geographic location, and activity risks. For additional details about our HSE training programs, please see the section of this report titled “HSE Training” on page 33. Employee Development Consistent with our commitment to internal promotion, we strive to identify top talent within Schlumberger, and to provide opportunities for employees who demonstrate exceptional competency and performance to progress to ever higher levels of responsibility within the Company. We seek to nurture our talent pool to maximize each employee’s development potential through a combination of training and experience. Throughout their careers, our employees benefit from opportunities to take on a variety of assignments for professional and personal growth. The Company benefits by having broadly diverse and experienced teams working throughout the world with great energy and enthusiasm. This continual knowledge sharing accelerates the development of our people and enriches our ability to serve our customers. Our “borderless career” philosophy means we support flexible career paths, helping employees develop their skills across different functions, businesses, and geogra.phies. Additionally, we provide employees with the necessary training to enable them to fulfill the requirements of their current role or position. NExT NExT, a Schlumberger company, provides capability, competency, and professional development services for the oil and gas industry. E&P curriculum taught by NExT includes more than 700 courses, training programs, and competency services covering technical and software skills that help attendees develop the petrotechnical expertise they need to meet complex industry challenges. NExT has access to more than 3,000 instructors whose collective expertise includes every E&P discipline. NExT delivers more than 1,500 training sessions each year, and has trained more than 70,000 E&P professionals worldwide. Learning Centers Our global network of learning centers is busy year-round. Primarily designed to deliver our technical programs, the learning facilities include classrooms, wells, rigs, and workshops. The courses are delivered by Schlumberger instructors, who have gained their expertise through practice and experience in operations roles. New trainees follow a fixed-step training program that lasts three to five years. During this period, they attend multiple courses at the learning centers that last from a few days to 12 weeks. The learning centers also host a range of classes including employee onboarding, technical, safety, personal development, business, and managerial courses. Developing Local Supply Chain Talent The global nature of our business presents several logistical challenges, one of which is difficult geographies. Success in these areas depends on having supply chain professionals capable of dealing with our complex operations. To enable a strong pipeline of people who have these skills, Schlumberger has partnered with top-tier supply chain training programs to assist our team members in geographies where supply chain training is not widely available. Team members are selected to learn and build expertise with the intention of returning to their markets and increasing the level of supply chain performance. Knowledge Management The Schlumberger approach to knowledge management encourages employees around the globe to share their expertise across the full spectrum of the Company’s day-to-day activities—including technical challenges, health, safety, and environmental topics, and best practices across all domains. Schlumberger’s knowledge management systems and processes connect and motivate our people to collaborate, learn and share expertise and insights, and enable us to deliver the highest-quality service to our customers worldwide. In 2019, Schlumberger employees completed 8 million searches and viewed 11 million pieces of vetted information in our corporate knowledge database. To facilitate networking within the Company and encourage knowledge sharing, every employee maintains an expanded curriculum vitae on our intranet, and these were accessed more than 7.9 million times during 2019.The Schlumberger InTouch service helps improve service delivery and facilitate the rapid, universal deployment of new technology. It provides technical and operational support to Schlumberger field engineers 24 hours a day, seven days a week, through more than 90 full-time InTouch Engineers located around the world. Our intranet portal, myHub, provides employees with a selection of Company news articles, announcements, and resources that are relevant to their geographic location, position, and interests. In 2019, an average of 45,000 users visited myHub each day, from 1,400 locations around the world. Schlumberger’s strength in knowledge management is shared externally through our speaking engagements events such as the American Productivity and Quality Center (APQC) annual Knowledge Management Conference and KMWorld’s yearly Knowledge Management event. In 2019, Schlumberger received the first-ever Excellence in Knowledge Management Award from APQC. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion One of Schlumberger’s greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce. As a service company, we believe that our ability to develop innovative, fit-for-basin solutions for our customers and to execute on our business strategies relies on attracting and retaining top talent—including local talent—through a combination of cultural, educational, and individual perspectives. As such, achieving nationality and cultural diversity and gender balance across all parts of our organization has been a focus for Schlumberger for many years. As we continue to increase the diversity of our workforce, we strive to promote inclusion and cultivate an atmosphere of equality and belonging, where every member of the Schlumberger team is encouraged to share ideas and positively contribute to our organization. No Discrimination Schlumberger obeys the employment laws of the countries in which it operates and does not engage in discrimination based on race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, ethnicity, disability, religion, union membership, or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as promotions, rewards, and access to training, as indicated in our Code of Conduct and our Human Rights Position Statement. National and Cultural Diversity  One of our greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce, with employees of many nationalities and backgrounds working together and sharing common objectives. Schlumberger recruits and develops people in alignment with our business objectives and aims to maintain our population diversity in proportion to the revenue derived from the countries in which we work. Our long-standing commitment to national and cultural diversity fosters a culture that is global in outlook yet local in practice, and this permeates every layer of the Company, including every level of management. Management Diversity Employees from non-Western countries and emerging economies are integrated into every level of our workforce, including senior management. Our executive leadership team includes officers from Europe, North America, Asia, Australia, North Africa, and the Middle East. Our Board of Directors also reflects the diversity of the Company. Two of our nine directors are women. Among our directors, three are citizens of the United States, three are citizens of France, one is a citizen of Saudi Arabia, one is a dual citizen of both Russia and Israel, and one is a dual citizen of both Argentina and the United Kingdom. LGBT+ We strive to foster a culture where employees who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or non-binary are encouraged to be their authentic selves and are respected as valued members of the Schlumberger team. Schlumberger sponsors an LGBT+ and allies workgroup within the Company, aimed at supporting LGBT+ employees, improving engagement on diversity and inclusion topics, and advising on changes in our training and work practices. Age Diversity Ongoing changes in the composition of our workforce require an adaptive approach toward recruitment, retention, and the mobility of our employees. We value the perspectives and the breadth of experience of our most senior employees. When our senior professionals retire, it is important that their knowledge is captured and passed on to the next generation. Schlumberger is dedicated to hiring, training, and retaining the best and brightest talent to fill the leadership roles and opportunities created when senior professionals retire. By fostering a culture of advancement and professional development, we are continually exposed to fresh perspectives and insights that enable us to stay at the cutting edge of innovation. Gender Balance and Pay Equity Achieving improved gender balance has been a focus of policy and action in Schlumberger since the late 1970s, when we began recruiting women for field operations roles. Since then, we have continued to expand opportunities for women across our field operations, technology, business, and management roles. We believe that these gender diversity initiatives help us maintain our competitive edge. We set our first gender balance target in 1994, with a goal of having women comprise 15% of our salaried workforce by 2015. We achieved that goal ahead of schedule in 2011. Our current gender balance goal is to have women comprise 25% of our salaried workforce by 2025. A portion of the 2020 short-term cash incentive compensation opportunity for our CEO and other members of our senior management is based on achieving our annual internal gender balance objectives as part of this five-year goal. In 2019, women made up 16.9% of the total Schlumberger workforce (including salaried and hourly employees), up from 16.3% in 2018. Among our salaried employee population, 20.9% were women, and 19.7% of our management roles were held by women. Women held 13.2% of all senior management roles at the Company in 2019.  As of September 2020, women filled the following senior executive roles at Schlumberger: one executive vice president reporting to the CEO, one basin president, one division president, and one additional executive officer in a functional role. In addition, women represented approximately 40% of our 2019 hires of salaried employees with science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) backgrounds. Schlumberger also continually monitors compensation equality for women and men across all job grades globally, with the goal of maintaining equity. We comply with applicable laws and regulations in various jurisdictions requiring reporting of gender diversity and pay parity data. Our 2019 gender pay gap report for the United Kingdom is available here, and our 2019 gender equality indicators report for Schlumberger entities in France is available here. Empowering Women in Technology Schlumberger participates in a number of internal and external initiatives to support women at Schlumberger and, more broadly, women’s careers in technology.   Connect Women is an internal Schlumberger networking community, where women and men meet regularly to exchange ideas, promote gender equality, and support career progression within Schlumberger. In 2019, the Connect Women network had 91 local chapters around the world and more than 6,800 members. Global activities included 11 webinars and roundtable discussions that promoted self-development and knowledge sharing. To date, there are 24 local support groups that mentor technical employees through their professional advancement. The Connect Women social network also hosts photo challenges and webinars about career development, collaborates on events with technical communities, and promotes gender equality, inclusion and diversity. Schlumberger also sponsors the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing, a series of conferences promoting women’s research and career opportunities in computing. In 2019, we conducted more than 70 interviews with conference attendees for positions including data scientists and software engineers, and we offered employment opportunities to 35% of those interviewed. In addition, we hosted “meet and engage” sessions with conference participants that provided a platform for networking and discussions about Schlumberger technologies. In addition, we annually sponsor the Serve to Succeed (S2S) Social Impact Challenge, through which members of the Society of Women Engineers at colleges and universities volunteer their time to service organizations and charities, to empower their communities to drive change for good. In 2019, 11 universities participated in the S2S Challenge, holding 175 events with nearly 1,100 volunteers. Respect in the Workplace Training Schlumberger employees are expected to treat one another professionally, based on with mutual respect, trust and individual dignity. They must also display respect when interacting with customers, contractors and others affected by our operations, including members of local communities. Schlumberger does not tolerate any form of harassment or other offensive action. More than 90,000 members of our workforce completed our 2019 global “Respect in the Workplace” training, which covered topics such as cultural differences, sexual harassment, bystander intervention and reporting processes. 