This is Schlumberger Our domain expertise combined with hardware, software and innovative digital technologies is enabling our customers to improve their performance by enhancing operational efficiency, lowering finding and producing costs, and improving productivity, all of which contribute to lowering their impact on the environment. Optimizing the use of resources, ensuring well integrity, and reducing emissions are integral to the guiding principles that define the way in which Schlumberger provides products and services worldwide.      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Chairman’s Message Chairman’s Message The Schlumberger approach to sustainability is founded upon a strong culture of social and environmental stewardship. Our expertise in hardware, software, and E&P domain knowledge enables the design and deployment of innovative technologies that increase operational efficiency and maximize hydrocarbon recovery while contributing to a lower environmental footprint for our customers. Addressing climate change has become more important in every industry, including oil and gas, and Schlumberger has been collaborating with our customers and relevant organizations to effect change through increased environmental performance and improved social and economic conditions in the communities where we live and work. Our stewardship journey, which has evolved over the past decades, is gaining momentum as we continue to work with our customers to achieve their environmental, social, and governance (ESG) objectives; mitigate social and environmental risks; and lower their greenhouse gas emissions in field operations. Schlumberger has always been at the forefront of change, including technology innovation, training and development of our people and, more recently, our New Way of Working that encompasses our corporate transformation. Our ESG activities are a key differentiator for us in the industry as we continuously improve our sustainable business practices. In recognition of the growing importance of our Global Stewardship program, the Schlumberger Board of Directors provides oversight for the Company’s sustainability efforts and receives quarterly updates on our progress. In terms of collaboration, Schlumberger became an associate member of IPIECA—the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. We participated in IPIECA’s development of Mapping the Oil and Gas Industry to the Sustainable Development Goals: an Atlas, a report about the implications of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for the oil and gas industry. Furthermore, Schlumberger partnered with the Solar Impulse Foundation in support of the World Alliance for Efficient Solutions initiative. By contributing both financial and human resources, we are helping to meet the initiative’s target of selecting 1,000 clean, efficient, and profitable solutions for environmental and socio-economic benefits. In addition, we are developing technologies to measure and manage our carbon footprint. For example, we have improved our ability to manage water use by designing a new water-modeling software that is being implemented at many of our facilities. Also, the Schlumberger Stewardship Tool is a software that incorporates sustainability into our engineering and operational practices by modeling efficiency gains at the wellsite that yield a lower environmental footprint. Paal Kibsgaard Chairman and Chief Executive Officer In line with our commitment to safety, we continued to guard against the risks that road journeys present using our global network of Journey Management Centers. We also remained focused on science education through SEED and includes the Schlumberger Foundation granting 38 new Faculty for the Future fellowships to women in emerging and developing countries, enabling them to pursue advanced graduate studies in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects at top-tier universities around the world. Finally, Schlumberger has always been committed to conducting business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity, and you can read about our Human Rights position on our website. I am pleased that our Global Stewardship program continues to grow and would like to thank our employees for their commitment in successfully implementing the initiatives you will read about in this report. 100,000 Approximate Number of Employees Worldwide 85+140+ Nationalities Countries Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world’s leading provider of technology for reservoir characterization, drilling, production, and processing to the oil and gas industry. Having invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and gas wells, Schlumberger today provides the industry’s widest range of products and services through its various subsidiaries and operating entities. Schlumberger has principal executive offices in Paris, Houston, London, and The Hague. As of December 31, 2017, the Company employed approximately 100,000 people who represent over 140 nationalities operating in more than 85 countries. Schlumberger attracts talented people from around the world. This broad range of perspectives—experience, education, geography, nationality, culture, gender, and age—stimulates creativity and innovation, helping us maintain our competitive edge. Moreover, our diverse workforce is better able to understand, respond to, and deliver services that meet the unique expectations and requirements of our stakeholders, including our customers, suppliers, and shareholders. Learn more about the Schlumberger commitment to Global Stewardship: www.slb.com/globalstewardship Revenue Contribution North Latin America 31% 13% America Middle East, Europe, 31% 23% Asia CIS, Africa Nationality Mix North Latin America 21% 12% America Middle East, Europe, Asia CIS, Africa 29% 37%      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Governance and Ethics Governance and Ethics Schlumberger is committed to excellence in everything we do. We aim to do business in a consistent and transparent way with our customers, who place a great deal of trust in us. Our reputation for integrity and fair dealing is vitally important in winning and retaining that trust. Schlumberger strives to maintain the trust and confidence of our customers and shareholders, as well as all other stakeholders affected by our operations. When we are clearly seen to behave in an ethical manner, we enhance our reputation for integrity, which helps us attract and retain customers and employees. Corporate Governance Board of Directors The Schlumberger Limited Board of Directors consists of 10 members and includes one executive director and eight independent directors. Our director independence standards exceed the independence requirements in the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). In 2017, the Board of Directors assumed responsibility for Global Stewardship programs and activities. As our Company’s highest governing body with oversight over climate-related risks and opportunities, the Board receives quarterly updates on the progress Schlumberger is making toward a low-carbon future. The Nominating & Governance Committee of the Board evaluates the suitability of potential nominees for Board membership, taking into consideration the Board's current composition and the Schlumberger diversity policy, which states that the Board should include appropriate expertise and reflect the gender, cultural and geographical diversity of the Company. Structure The Board recognizes that one of its key responsibilities is to evaluate and determine an appropriate board leadership structure to ensure independent oversight of management. The Board believes that there is no single, generally accepted board leadership structure that is appropriate across all circumstances, and that the right structure may vary as circumstances change. As such, the Board's independent directors consider the Board’s leadership structure annually, and may modify this structure from time to time to best address the Company’s unique circumstances and advance the best interests of all stockholders, when and as appropriate. Most recently, the independent members of the Board determined that it was appropriate to combine the positions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. However, the independent directors of the Board may, at their discretion, separate those roles in the future if they deem such action appropriate. Diversity With approximately 100,000 employees who represent over 140 nationalities, Schlumberger and our Board of Directors value gender, cultural, and geographic diversity. Three of our 10 directors are women. Among our directors, four are citizens of the United States, and the others are citizens of Norway, Argentina and the United Kingdom, Canada, France, Russia and Saudi Arabia. Our diverse Board also evidences the Board’s commitment to have directors who represent countries where Schlumberger operates. The Nominating & Governance Committee’s evaluation of director nominees considers a director’s ability to contribute to the Board’s diversity, and the committee annually reviews its effectiveness in balancing these considerations in the context of its consideration of director nominees. Director Tenure 3 4–7 Years 5 2 7+ Years 0–3 Years Board responsibilities include reviewing the Company’s major financial objectives, critical strategies and long-term plans, including major allocations of capital, significant proposed business acquisitions and divesti.tures, operating performance, sustainability, and stockholder returns. Board of Directors1 » Peter L.S. Currie » Miguel M. Galuccio » V. Maureen Kempston Darkes » Paal Kibsgaard » Nikolay Kudryavtsev » Michael E. Marks » Indra K. Nooyi » Lubna S. Olayan » Leo Rafael Reif » Henri Seydoux 1As of Q2 2018 ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Corporate Governance Board Committees The Schlumberger Board of Directors maintains five committees. The Audit Committee assists in oversight of financial statements as well as legal and regulatory compliance and independent auditor performance. The Compensation Committee helps the Board discharge its responsibilities in regard to executive compensation. The Nominating & Governance Committee identifies and recommends individuals qualified to become directors, oversees the Ethics and Compliance Program and conducts an annual review of the Board’s performance. The Finance Committee assists with financing policies along with pension and profit-sharing trusts. The Science & Technology Committee advises the Board and management on matters involving the Company’s research and development programs. The preceding descriptions are select summaries only, and are qualified by reference to the committee charters, which can be found at: Audit Committee Compensation Committee Nominating & Governance Committee Finance Committee Science & Technology Committee Communication with the Board The Schlumberger Board of Directors and individual members can be contacted at the following address: Schlumberger Board of Directors or name of Board member c/o the Secretary Schlumberger Limited 5599 San Felipe, 17th Floor Houston, Texas 77056 Executive Compensation Our compensation program is designed so that the higher an executive’s position in the Company, the larger the portion of compensation that is contingent on long-term stock price performance, the Company’s financial performance, and individual performance—described as “at-risk” compensation. The Company believes that having a significant portion of executive compensation at-risk more closely aligns the interests of its executives with the long-term interests of Schlumberger and its stockholders. Accordingly, our executive officers receive a greater percentage of their compensation through at-risk pay tied to Company performance than our other executives. A more detailed discussion of our executive compensation program is available in our 2018 proxy statement starting on page 24. The Compensation Committee believes that: • The pay of our named executive officers and other senior executives should be strongly linked to performance that is evaluated against personal and Company financial goals. • Our compensation program should enable us to recruit, develop, motivate, and retain top global talent, both in the short-term and long-term, by establishing compensation that is competitive and promoting the Company’s values of people, technology, and profit. • Long-term incentive equity awards should encourage the creation of long-term stockholder value, align our executives’ compensation with the stock price returns of our stockholders, and incentivize our executives to achieve strategic and financial goals that support our long-term performance and leadership position in our industry. • Our executives should be required to hold stock acquired through equity-based awards and stock ownership guidelines that align their interests with those of our other stockholders. Promotion from within the Company is a key principle at Schlumberger, and all of our executive officers have reached their current positions through career development with the Company. Schlumberger sees diversity of its workforce as an important part of its cultural philosophy and a business imperative. We believe that our consistent approach to compensation at all levels, irrespective of nationality, is a strong factor in achieving a diverse workforce comprised of top global talent. Financial Performance2 (Stated in millions, except per-share amounts) 2015 2016 2017 Revenue  $ 35,475  $ 27,810  $ 30,440  Income (loss) from  $ 2,072  $  (1,687)  $ (1,505)  continuing operations  attributable to Schlumberger  Diluted earnings (loss) per  $ 1.63  $  (1.24)  $  (1.08)  share from continuing operations  Cash dividends per share  $ 2.00  $ 2.00  $ 2.00  Cash flow from operations  $ 8,805  $ 6,261  $ 5,663  For more information:  http://investorcenter.slb.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=97513&p=irol.reportsannual Independent Audit PwC auditors reviewed our processes and procedures for 2017 and verified  this year’s selected subset of our data. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are, in all material respects, fairly presented and in accordance with Schlumberger procedural guidelines. The data reviewed included: Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions of greenhouse gases, waste production, water consumption, energy consumption, spills, employee and contractor lost time injury frequencies, and occupational illness frequency rate. PwC performed this work in accordance with their professional standards and with ISAE 3000 (assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information). 2 All financial figures referenced in US dollars. Sustainable Development Goals Schlumberger has, for a third year, chosen to align with the Sustainable Development Goals introduced by the United Nations in 2015. In this year’s Global Stewardship report, we demonstrate how we align with the goals that are listed below. Alignment with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals United Nations Sustainable  Schlumberger Global  Development Goal  Stewardship Report 2017  No Poverty  Supply chain, pages 56-57  Education, pages 36-43  Diversity, pages 68-71  Good Health and Well-Being  Health & Safety, pages 44-51  HSE for Youth, page 40  Quality Education  Education, pages 36-43  University Relations, page 64  Local Initiatives and Global  Impact, page 72  Gender Equality  Gender Diversity, pages 68-71  Education, pages 36-43  Economic Growth  Supply Chain, pages 56-57  Ethics, pages 8-11  Reduced Inequalities  Supply Chain, page 56  Ethics, pages 8-11  Climate Action  Climate Change, pages 11,15  Life on Land  Biodiversity, page 15  Life Below Water  eSource, page 28  Partnerships for the Goals  University Relations, page 64  Education, page 36-43  Stakeholder Engagement,  pages 58-61  2017 Materiality Issues that continue to be significant to our business are listed below. These issues were identified in consultation with our stakeholders and are based on an internal review that assessed risk, applicability, and degree of impact. Governance & Ethics Board Leadership, Responsibility, and Diversity Executive Compensation Ethics, Integrity, Compliance, and Transparency Fiscal Responsibility Environment Unintended Releases to the Environment Water Optimization Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Climate Change Biodiversity Risk Management Chemical Transparency Technology Impact Energy Efficiency Waste Management Resource Consumption Research and Development Community STEM & HSE Education Employee Health and Safety HSE Training and Management Driving Safety and Injury Prevention Contractor and Supplier Management Crisis Management Community Engagement Process Improvement Stakeholder Engagement Supply Chain Management Human Rights Local Investment Employee Benefits and Compensation Gender Diversity Global (Nationality) Diversity Knowledge Management Recruiting Training and Development University Relations     ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Ethics Ethics We believe that to succeed, we must draw on the foundations that preserve our identity and establish the direction we must follow. This means understanding what defines us as a company, recognizing how we behave toward others, and defining how we approach our work. The Blue Print documents—Our Identity and Our Code of Conduct—are designed to help employees accomplish this. These documents summarize a number of elements that include Our Purpose, Ambitions, and Values, and they express the mindset we need to succeed. The Schlumberger Blue Print in Action–Our Code of Conduct applies to all Schlumberger directors, officers, employees, and contractors of the Company. It is designed to help each employee handle business situations professionally and fairly. It explains how our actions reflect on the Company, and how the Company is, therefore, the sum of our actions. Employees are the first line of defense in protecting the Company against incidents of non-compliance. Ethics and Compliance (E&C) training is designed to provide targeted training to employees throughout their careers in Schlumberger, focusing on the E&C risks encountered in their various roles in the Company. Employees are required to complete E&C-related training on a regular basis and as their careers progress. The E&C training requirements are periodically adjusted to ensure employees continue to receive proper E&C training. Business Ethics Acting ethically involves more than simply ensuring compliance with laws and regulations. It involves recognition that our decisions Our Mindset summarizes the behavior expected of every Schlumberger team member, including attitude, words and actions, as we interact with each other and with our external stakeholders. Commitment Integrity Understand and support Recognize the boundaries the direction ahead. and have the courage to act Make a difference. honestly and responsibly. Do the right thing. » Service focus » Decision making » Self development » Continuous improvement » Responsibility Drive Teamwork Take action and have Trust others to do their part a positive impact on and work together toward performance. common goals. Achieve excellence. Help the team succeed. » Creativity » Collaboration » Initiative » Communication » Adaptability » Coaching and mentoring » Results focus » Diversity affect others. By keeping this in mind, we earn the respect, trust, and confidence of our customers, colleagues, shareholders, and others affected by our operations. By doing things right the first time, every time, we enhance our reputation for integrity with these stakeholders (Code of Conduct, p. 11).  Supply Chain Management Schlumberger works with suppliers in a socially responsible and ethical manner. We have zero tolerance for corruption of any kind and we expect the same from our contractors and suppliers. To meet our industry requirements, suppliers must adhere to responsible social, environmental, and economic practices, including avoiding the use of conflict minerals in our source activities. Our suppliers are selected and retained in alignment with our health, safety, and environmental stewardship standards and Code of Conduct (Code of Conduct, p. 12). Employee Whistle Blower Protection Employees who believe that a violation of Our Code of Conduct has occurred must report concerns to management using any available channel of communication. Schlumberger will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who raises a concern in good faith. Employees are required to report known and suspected violations of the Code of Conduct and applicable national laws. However, employees who intentionally report false information are subject to disciplinary action (Code of Conduct, pp. 1 and 12). Conflicts of Interest Conflicts between personal interests and the interests of Schlumberger or its customers may arise when personal, social, financial, political, or other interests interfere. To avoid such conflicts of interest, employees must not hold financial stakes in companies that do business with Schlumberger. They must put Schlumberger business interests first, disclose all conflicts of interest, and avoid situations that create the appearance of a conflict of interest. If such a conflict exists, the affected employee must obtain written approval from an appropriate Schlumberger controller before continuing to work (Code of Conduct, p. 16). Stock Transactions Our Insider Trading Standard prohibits employees from releasing material, non-public information about Schlumberger, such as financial results, changes in dividends and earnings, mergers and acquisitions, and business strategies. Employees are required to keep such information confidential, including all nonpublic and insider information that relates to Schlumberger or its financial position. Also, employees may not buy or sell Schlumberger Limited stock or publicly traded derivatives until the information becomes public, nor may they act to acquire or sell stocks and derivatives of companies with which Schlumberger does business until the information is public knowledge (Code of Conduct, p. 17). Gifts and Entertainment Accepting or giving business gifts or hospitality must never influence business decisions. Items or benefits for which the recipient does not pay fair market value, including meals, entertainment, or tickets to sporting events worth more than a nominal value cannot be offered to or accepted from any individual or organization that wishes to do business with Schlumberger (Code of Conduct, p. 19). Antibribery No employee may offer or accept bribes in any form or under any circumstance, including bribes related to charitable contributions. We avoid facilitation payments, making them only in very limited circumstances, such as when an individual's health or safety is at risk and only when we have obtained proper approval and documentation according to Schlumberger requirements. In addition, payments to government officials are forbidden. Schlumberger is politically neutral and does not make political contributions (Code of Conduct, p. 23). Fair and Ethical Business Practices Schlumberger does not win business or maintain customer relationships by acting illegally or unethically. We do not enter into agreements that can restrict full and fair competition. We do not Blue Print in Action The Blue Print in Action reinforces the Blue Print–Our Identity, which summarizes our purpose, ambitions, values and the mindset we need to succeed. The Schlumberger Blue Print in Action–Our Code of Conduct is reviewed periodically and amended as appropriate. In Brief All Schlumberger employees, contractors, and third parties must: » know and obey the laws where the Company operates » not engage in actions unless they are ethical and legal » ask questions and raise concerns when issues arise » report actual or potential violations internally ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Ethics share pricing or bidding information with competitors or with anyone outside of the Company. We do not use Company funds or assets for political purposes. We may engage in dialogue with public policy decision makers, but we do not use lobbyists or seek to bring about particular outcomes or decisions. We compete aggressively, but fairly (Code of Conduct, p. 26). Trade Compliance Schlumberger provides products and services in many countries worldwide. Nearly all the countries in which we operate have customs laws, and many have additional trade controls that govern the import, temporary import, export or re-export of Schlumberger products, services, technology, software, and finances. Wherever we do business, we comply with all customs and trade control laws and regulations that apply to us, and we are especially mindful of technology transfers (Code of Conduct, p. 30). Business and Financial Transparency Schlumberger keeps honest and accurate business records. Employees must not hide, alter, falsify or disguise the true nature of any business transaction. Schlumberger complies with accounting and financial reporting standards, and requires employees to follow internal financial approval guidelines. We retain and destroy business records in accordance with local laws and Schlumberger requirements (Code of Conduct, p. 36). Conflict Minerals Schlumberger recognizes that human rights abuses can exist in the extraction, transportation, and trade of minerals in some countries including the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its adjoining countries. We do not knowingly contribute to the conflict in our sourcing activity in the covered countries. Schlumberger does not tolerate corruption of any kind and we expect our suppliers to adhere to the same standard. We have also developed a Conflict Minerals Position Statement. Information Protection Information Security Schlumberger is committed to protecting and respecting the privacy of every employee and the personal information of every third party that it processes. Specific internal data privacy requirements guide the collection, use, transfer (including transfer across international boundaries), release, disclosure, and security of such data. These requirements also describe our expectations for third parties who process such data on our behalf (Code of Conduct, p. 31). Consumer Data Protection Information is the foundation of our business. Confidential or commercially sensitive information comes in many forms, including via conversations, on paper, and electronically. We treat all records created or transmitted using Company tools as Company property and we take every available measure to preserve the confidentiality of Schlumberger and customer data (Code of Conduct, p. 34). Intellectual Property Rights Protection Intellectual property that is created when an employee makes a new discovery or conceives of an idea, device, technique or process related to our business becomes the exclusive property of Schlumberger. All employees agree to this concept as a condition of employment. The Company protects its intellectual property and confidential information by using non-disclosure agreements and confidential disclosure agreements before giving third parties access to such information. We also comply with restrictions on the installation and use of third-party software (Code of Conduct, p. 36). Social Responsibility Equal Opportunity-No Discrimination One of our greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce. Employees of many nationalities and backgrounds work together to achieve common objectives. As a global company, we encourage fair employment practices and offer equal opportunities to all our employees (Code of Conduct, p. 27). Fair Wages Compensation paid to workers must comply with all applicable wage laws, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime hours, and benefits. The basis on which workers are being paid is clearly conveyed to them in a timely manner. We offer competitive compensation and benefits packages, and we require our suppliers to comply with all applicable wage laws wherever we work (Code of Conduct, p. 27, and internal personnel policy). Human Rights Schlumberger employees represent more than 140 nationalities who live and work in more than 85 countries around the globe. Schlumberger is committed to conducting business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity. The Company obeys the employment laws of the countries in which it operates and does not engage in discrimination based on race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, religion, union membership, or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as promotions, rewards, and access to training. Our employees are expected to treat one another professionally and with mutual respect. Schlumberger maintains zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, and we expect the same from our contractors, suppliers, and agents. They are required to comply with the laws of the countries in which they operate, and to act in a socially responsible and ethical manner, consistent with The Blue Print in Action. All suppliers, contractors, and agents must be approved and managed in accordance with internal requirements. Schlumberger respects the principles in The International Bill of Human Rights, including Child Labor (Article 25); Discrimination (Article 7); Fair Wage and Collective Bargaining (Article 23); Freedom of Association (Article 20); Human Rights (Articles 1 and 2); and Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking (Article 4) (Code of Conduct, p. 27, and Supply Chain Services). Immigration and Employment Laws Because our business involves frequent international movement of employees, we ensure that the travel, transfer, employment, and residence of all personnel complies with applicable immigration and employment laws. This requirement extends to dependents of our employees and contractor personnel. Schlumberger has visa and immigration compliance programs to assist in this effort, but we expect all employees to take responsibility for their own immigration status (Code of Conduct, p. 30). Child Labor Hiring children is strictly prohibited. Our internal personnel policy defines a child laborer as any working person who is, (1) under the age of 15, (2) under the age for completing compulsory education, or (3) under the minimum age for employment in the country. Social Responsibility We contribute to the social development of our communities by supporting initiatives that improve youth education and living conditions. We foster the economic development of these communities by recruiting, hiring, and training where we work; promoting from within; and complying with national regulations and rules. We actively promote health and education in these communities (Code of Conduct, p. 27). Social and Environmental Management Standard A standard to manage social and environmental issues, risks, and impacts in large-footprint projects has been applied to 14 projects where Schlumberger Production Management (SPM) develops and comanages customer oilfield assets under long-term commercial agreements. The SPM Social and Environmental Management Standard, which aligns with the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, provides a framework for managing our local impact and ensuring that we respect the rights of individuals and groups in the communities where we live and work. The standard provides specific guidance in six social and six environmental subject areas. Environmental Responsibility Operations Integrity Operations integrity means that every employee commits to doing the job right the first time, every time. We do this to protect our people, our communities, and the environment, and to deliver flawless quality to our customers. To help make continuous quality improvements, we participate in all required audits and periodic assessments. We also help improve quality by addressing customer feedback in a timely and appropriate manner (Code of Conduct, p. 14). Protecting the Environment Our advanced technologies enable our customers to lower their environmental impact while optimizing the recovery of nonrenewable resources. By combining our technology advantage with increased engagement in the communities where we work, we are lowering emissions, decreasing water usage, and reducing unplanned releases. Addressing Climate Change As a global technology leader, we believe that our ability to address climate change issues with new technologies and increased operational performance is integral to the energy industry’s global initiative to reduce its carbon footprint. Schlumberger technologies are already directly and indirectly helping our customers reduce or avoid emissions, lower water usage, improve chemistry applications, and increase oil and gas production by using fewer resources. Our corporate strategy includes the development of advanced technologies for faster drilling, reduced surface and subsurface footprint, and improved reservoir recovery and production—all of which contribute to lowering resource requirements and creating fewer emissions per hydrocarbon unit produced. Environmental Management Our HSE management system has encompassed environmental quality management for more than 18 years. This system has been independently reviewed for conformance to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standard, and for conformance to environmental standards of the International Finance Corporation. Social and Environmental Management Standard Environmental Waste Management Water Resource Management Management of Greenhouse Gases and Air Emissions Environmental Emergency Management Land and Biodiversity Management Hazardous Materials Management Social Community Relations Management of Nuisance Local Content Social Investment Indigenous Peoples and Cultural Heritage Land Acquisition and Land Access 