Social and Economic Impact THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENT    TRACK RECORD Human Rights Schlumberger has publicly committed itself to supporting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948. This commitment is articulated in the Schlumberger Blue Print in Action—Our Code of Conduct, which was revised and released in April 2014. It states, “Schlumberger endorses the aspirations of the International Bill of Rights and encourages work that augments the contributions that business can make to preserve and respect human dignity.” Social Risk Assessments Social risk assessments are designed for projects with a high potential for significant social and environmental impacts. Since we implemented the social risks assessment process in 2009, more than 25 assessments have been completed in over 15 countries across five continents. In 2015, social risk assessments were completed in Ecuador, Guatemala, and China. Supply Chain Audit A 2015 social performance audit and inspection program for supply chain contractors in a large-footprint project in Ecuador helped ensure ongoing management of employment- and workplace-related activities and risks. The audit covered local hiring practices and working conditions at nine work sites managed by contractors. Supply Chain In today’s competitive global economy, we know that strong relationships with our suppliers are essential to meeting our own needs, the needs of our customers, and local content. We procure goods and services only from financially stable, technically qualified, and reliable sources. Our preferred suppliers are those who work with us in a professional, ethical, competitive, and cost-effective manner consistent with Schlumberger policies, procedures, and business objectives. Sustainability Initiatives To foster knowledge sharing around the world, we implemented structured training programs in 2015 for 38% of employees in the Procurement, Sourcing and Distribution, and Contracts functions of our supply chain population. We revamped packaging guidelines for the delivery of chemical products to be in compliance with QHSE requirements or with applicable laws and regulations, whichever is more stringent, even in remote and environmentally hostile locations. In addition, regional procurement service centers in Kuala Lumpur, Tyumen, Bucharest, and Houston became fully operational with 85% of the workforce in each location sourced locally. Supporting Clean Water Projects IDO, a French nonprofit organization created in 2009 by retired Schlumberger employees, helps rural communities in less developed countries build sustainable drinking water supply systems. IDO provides support to villagers by showing them how to maintain their drinking water wells in a sustainable manner while encouraging them to become independent and take over full responsibility for ongoing maintenance. By the end of 2015, IDO in Chad and the Congo had inventoried more than 2,000 water wells and facilitated the repair of over 600 wells, resulting in the provision of potable water to more than 170,000 villagers.       TRACK RECORD Stakeholder Engagement THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENTStakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is an ongoing process that enables us to adapt to the changing expectations and needs of groups who are important to us and see us as important to them. The expectations of our stakeholders vary and, depending on needs and circumstances, change over time. Our job is to stay connected with these groups, listen to their concerns, and respond promptly with respect and clarity. We meet regularly with investors, join industry initiatives and partnerships, participate in academic affiliations and discussions, and engage in community meetings. We use the information that we uncover during this process when communicating to stakeholders through our sustainability report and our financial disclosures. Employment and Human Capital THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENT    TRACK RECORD Employment and Human Capital Our people are our main asset. The creativity, energy, and expertise of our people is the foundation upon which we build our business success. Because we operate in a global fashion throughout the world, one of our greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce. Diversity is the cornerstone of our recruitment efforts and we adhere to the principle of recruiting employees wherever we work. Our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain outstanding employees is essential to the long-term future of our business. We believe that our employees perform best when they are challenged and learning. We have no rigid career paths—in certain types of professional jobs, for example, employees are transferred to new roles or new locations every two to three years. Research and Innovation Schlumberger is one of four founding companies that, since 2002, have collectively committed more than $188 million to the Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP) at Stanford University in collaboration with 40 institutions worldwide. The GCEP seeks ways to supply energy to meet the changing needs of the growing world population in ways that protect the environment. The project manages a portfolio of innovative energy research programs to develop technologies that are efficient, environ.mentally benign, and cost-effective when deployed on a large scale. Training and Development Training and development are continuous processes at Schlumberger. Training is delivered through classroom-based instruction, live simulations at learning centers, self-paced learning using the latest interactive technologies, and on-the-job education. Development opportunities include coaching, mentoring, and cross-training through career mobility to expose employees to new roles, geographies, business segments, and functions.       TRACK RECORD Employment and Human Capital THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENTUniversity Relations Our University Relations program helps develop technical leaders and seeks to positively influence science and energy technology worldwide. In 2015, Schlumberger participated in more than 200 collaborations with over 50 universities around the world. These collaborations, many of which are ongoing, are directly relevant to the primary technical challenges facing the oil and gas sector. Our Management on University Advisory Boards 20 Schlumberger executives  17 Number of Universities  Collaborations  Interns  200 50 180 600 Universities Universities Universities High Schools (research) (education) Educational Engagements In 2015, software donations to 610 universities, colleges, and high schools in 75 countries have directly supported the education of thousands of students and the work of hundreds of professors and research scientists in the earth sciences, petroleum-related engineering disciplines, and software develop.ment. We also hosted approximately 600 interns from over 180 universities in more than 80 countries. The candidates came from more than 100 disciplines of study and worked in field operations, applied research, engineering, manufacturing, business, sales, finance, legal, and human resources. Schlumberger sponsors several endowed chairs—at least 12 in 2015 in the United States, United Kingdom, Egypt, and Russia—as well as visiting professors in Malaysia, Netherlands, and the United States. In 2015, we sponsored more than $2 million in scholarships, either by direct financial aid or tools and training. We hosted competitions such as the Schlumberger Ocean Academic Competition to develop software competencies among select university and high school students. Recruiting Our long-held strategy to hire only the best talent, and to hire where we work, is supported by strong relationships with select universities and colleges worldwide. This ensures that the diversity and quality of our workforce are key defining aspects of our culture. 327,000 85 444 55+ Job Applicants Countries Universities Disciplines Recruited Employment and Human Capital THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENT    TRACK RECORD Diversity Schlumberger works in more than 85 countries, many of these for more “Diversity in our workforce is one of the fundamental aspects that than 70 years, and employs people who represent over 140 nationalities. The company attracts top performers from around the globe. This broad defines Schlumberger culture.” – Patrick Schorn, President Operations range of perspectives—experience, education, geography, nationality, culture, gender, and age—stimulates creativity and innovation, helping us maintain our competitive edge. Gender Diversity We are proud that in 2015 women made up 16.2% of the Schlumberger workforce—double that of the industry worldwide and represents an increase from 15.8% in 2014. Today, 19% of our salaried population is female. We have three female presidents, four female GeoMarket managers, and 10 female vice presidents. In 2015, we renewed our commitment to gender diversity by setting a new target of having women comprise 25% of our workforce at all levels of the organization by 2020. Gender Diversity (percentage) 16.2  19.9  18.2  10.3  Women in the Company  Women in Junior Management Positions  Women in Management Positions  Women in Top Management Positions  Geographic Mix (percentage)  18  30 31  Latin  Middle Europe,  America  East CIS, Africa  Revenue Contribution  (percentage) 17 2827 Latin Middle Europe, America East CIS, Africa National and Cultural 85 140 21 North America 28 North America Countries We Nationalities Work In Employed Track Record Schlumberger was recognized in 2015 by a variety of organizations for excellence in sustainability innovation and technology development. Many of the awards listed here are for our educational programs, which concentrate on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects. These subjects underpin not only our business but also economic growth in every country around the globe. Awards and Recognition THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY 2015 Awards and Recognition Many of the awards listed here are for our educational programs, which concentrate on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects. These subjects underpin not only our business but also economic growth in every country around the globe. Our focus is on school-age children and women—educational advancement in both groups makes a powerful contribution to developing economies, as well as to the individuals themselves. We are also widely respected for our advances in technology that help our customers produce oil and gas more efficiently. These efficiencies create sustainability benefits—such as capacity building, economic development, and social investment—while helping our customers conserve natural resources and minimize their environmental footprint. Our Accomplishments – Getenergy Ltd.: Education & Training Provider of the Year – Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises (MAKE) 2015 Global MAKE Award – President’s Volunteer Service Award – Happy Trainees – 2015 Africa Employer of Choice Top 100 – CNNMoney | World’s Top Employers for New Grads (Engineering) – 2015 EMEA Top 100 Most InDemand Employers – Interfaith CarePartners Sustaining Presence Award 2015 – Global IR Forum Top 50 Silver Ranking – 2020 Women on Boards Winning “W” Company 2015 – EnergyPoint Research Customer Satisfaction Survey – 2015 Shell Global Services Safety Award Awards and Recognition THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY – 2015 ADIPEC Awards • Best Exploration Technology Award: 3D mapping of reservoir saturation • Best Oil & Gas Innovation or Technology: Sub-Surface from crosswell electromagnetic in horizontal wells, Saudi Aramco and • Geo-Engineered Completion Optimization in a Giant Unconventional Tight Schlumberger Gas Reservoir, Khazzan Field, Oman – Spotlight on New Technology Awards • BP Exploration (Epsilon) Ltd., Oman Branch, Schlumberger • GeoSphere Reservoir Mapping-While-Drilling Service – E&P Magazine 2015 Meritorious Awards for Engineering Innovation • Multiphase Compressor Exploration • Quanta Geo Photorealistic Reservoir Geology Service • Petrel 2014 User Experience; Schlumberger Drill Bits • StingBlade Conical Diamond Element Bit; Smith Bits, a Schlumberger company Drilling Systems • GeoSphere Reservoir Mapping-While-Drilling Service; Schlumberger Water Management • EPCON Dual Compact Flotation Unit; Schlumberger – 2015 World Oil Awards • Best Drilling and Completion Fluids Award: RHELIANT PLUS drilling fluid system, M-I SWACO, a Schlumberger company • Best Drilling Technology Award: GeoSphere reservoir mapping-while- drilling service, Schlumberger 