This is Schlumberger For more than 90 years, Schlumberger has developed innovative technologies that enable our customers to extract oil and gas safely, efficiently, and with fewer environmental impacts. We supply the industry's most comprehensive range of products and services, from exploration through production, and integrated pore-to-pipeline solutions that optimize hydrocarbon recovery to deliver reservoir performance.      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Chairman’s Message Chairman’s Message Schlumberger prides itself on its rich history of technology leadership paired with social and environmental responsibility. Sustainability is not only expected by our global society, it is fundamental to business success and future independence. Global Stewardship is visible in everything we do—driven by our core values of People, Technology and Profit. Long before we began producing this Global Stewardship Report, the people of Schlumberger were taking actions to positively impact environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. To our innovators who deliver problem-solving technology, ESG is not a separate realm of work we do from time to time, it is relevant to all aspects of our business. Our culture is built on excellence and leadership, and our focus on Global Stewardship drives pride in our workforce and differentiation for us in our industry. At the same time, stakeholders’ evolving perspectives—particularly on climate change— now mean that for any company, having no ESG program is untenable. Simply having a program, however, does not make a leader. That is why Schlumberger continues to accelerate our stewardship efforts, which extend well beyond our own operations—while continuing to work to reduce our environmental footprint and strengthen our social impact in the communities where we live and work.  As a leader in oilfield services, we are always aligned with our customers’ needs as they move toward meeting their own ESG objectives. To address increasing environmental pressures, however, our unrivaled geographic reach together with our culture of meeting challenges with technology are insufficient. But when combined with our stewardship strategy, these qualities uniquely position us to lead. We continue to expand our portfolio of technologies that help reduce environmental footprint, whether that takes the form of hardware that decreases waste, processes that reduce water or power consumption, or software that uses data to find the optimal wellsite designs to lower emissions and resource use. We are committed to increasing the adoption of these technologies and demonstrating to stakeholders the possibilities of reduced environmental impacts by modeling E&P operations with the Stewardship Tool. Yet technology is only one aspect of our holistic ESG approach. Foundational to our focus on sustainability is the continued safety of our people, our commitment to working ethically, and our programs focused on enhancing the well-being of our communities. Our 2018 Global Stewardship initiatives centered on prioritizing the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals we could most impact, identifying climate-related risks and opportunities to mitigate those risks in our operations, and building a framework to further increase the transparency of our supply chain. We continue extending our reach by collaborating with companies across industries, non-governmental organizations, and bilateral organizations. We recognize the importance of collaboration with other thought leaders to help drive change. Paal Kibsgaard Investing in people remains core to our values— In 2018, we proudly celebrated the 20th anniversary of our Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) program, hosting over 18,000 students around the world in robotic, and computer science workshops to inspire the digital creators and innovators of the future. We granted an additional 50 fellowships in 2018 through our Faculty for the Future program—now in its 14th year— which has funded a total of 683 women from emerging and developing countries in their pursuit of advanced graduate studies. These women return to their home countries as powerful contributors and role models for their communities. Looking to 2019, our priorities include finalizing our climate impact assessment and expanding our ESG ambitions in all the countries in which we operate. I am proud of our Global Stewardship program and I would like to recognize our people  who drive these initiatives through their desire and dedication. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 100,000 Approximate Number of Employees Worldwide 140+ 120+ Countries Nationalities Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world’s leading provider of technology for reservoir characterization, drilling, production, and processing to the oil and gas industry. Having invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and gas wells, Schlumberger today provides the industry’s widest range of products and services through its various subsidiaries and operating entities. Schlumberger has executive offices in Paris, Houston, London and The Hague. As of December 31, 2018, the Company had product sales and service in more than 120 countries and employed approximately 100,000 people who represent over 140 nationalities. Schlumberger attracts talented people from around the world. This broad range of perspectives—experience, education, geography, nationality, culture, gender, and age—stimulates creativity and innovation, helping us maintain our competitive edge. Moreover, our diverse workforce is better able to understand, respond to, and deliver services and products that meet the unique expectations and requirements of our stakeholders, including our customers, suppliers, and shareholders. Learn more about the Schlumberger commitment to Global Stewardship: www.slb.com/globalstewardship 2018 Revenue Contribution North Other America 1%37% Latin 11% America Middle East, Europe, 29% 22% Asia CIS, Africa 2018 Nationality Mix North Latin America 23% 13% America Middle East, Europe, Asia CIS, Africa 30% 34%      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Governance and Ethics Governance and Ethics Schlumberger is committed to excellence in everything we do, and we strive to maintain the trust and confidence of our customers and shareholders as well as other stakeholders affected by our operations. Our commitment to sound principles of corporate governance and ethics sets the foundation of our Global Stewardship program. We aim to operate in a consistent and transparent way. Our reputation for integrity and fair dealing is vitally important in winning and retaining the trust of our stakeholders. When we are clearly seen to behave in an ethical manner, we enhance our reputation for integrity, which helps us attract and retain customers and employees. Corporate Governance Board of Directors The Schlumberger Limited Board of Directors consists of 10 members and includes one executive director and seven independent directors. Our director independence standards meet or exceed the independence requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board oversees our Global Stewardship programs and activities. As our Company’s highest governing body with oversight over climate-related risks and opportunities, the Committee receives quarterly updates on the progress Schlumberger is making toward a low-carbon future. The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board also evaluates the suitability of potential nominees for Board membership, making recommendation to the full Board. The committee takes into consideration the Board's current composition and the Schlumberger diversity policy, which states that the Board should include appropriate expertise and reflect the gender, cultural, and geographical diversity of the Company. The Nominating and Governance Committee’s evaluation of director nominees takes into account their ability to contribute to the Board’s diversity, and the Nominating and Governance Committee annually reviews its effectiveness in balancing these considerations when considering director nominees. Structure The Board recognizes that one of its key responsibilities is to evaluate and determine an appropriate board leadership structure to ensure independent oversight of management. The Board believes that there is no single, generally accepted board leadership structure that is appropriate for all companies, and that the right structure may vary for a single company as circumstances change. As such, our independent directors consider the Board’s leadership structure at least annually and may modify this structure to best address the Company’s unique circumstances and advance the best interests of all stockholders, when and as appropriate. Most recently, the independent members of the Board determined that it was appropriate to combine the positions of chairman of the board and chief executive officer. However, the independent directors of the Board may, at their discretion, separate those roles in the future if they deem such action appropriate. Diversity With approximately 100,000 employees who represent over 140 nationalities, Schlumberger and our Board of Directors value gender, cultural, and geographic diversity. Three of our 10 directors are women. Among our directors, four are citizens of the United States, two are citizens of Russia, one is a citizen of each of Norway, France, and Saudi Arabia; and one is a dual citizen of Argentina and the United Kingdom. Our geographically diverse Board also evidences the Board’s commitment to have directors who represent countries where Schlumberger operates. In addition, the exceptionally broad and diverse experience of our Board nominees is in keeping with the goal of having directors whose background and experience complement those of other directors. Diversified Director Nominee Tenure 1 4–7 Years 6 3 7+ Years 0–3 Years Board of Directors1 » Peter L.S. Currie » Miguel M. Galuccio » Paal Kibsgaard » Nikolay Kudryavtsev » Tatiana A. Mitrova » Indra K. Nooyi » Lubna S. Olayan » Mark G. Papa » Leo Rafael Reif » Henri Seydoux 1As of Q2 2019 ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Corporate Governance Board Committees The Schlumberger Board of Directors maintains five committees. The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the accounting and financial reporting processes of the Company, including the audit of the Company’s financial statements and the integrity of the Company’s financial statements, legal and regulatory compliance, the independent auditor’s qualifications and independence, and the performance of the Company’s internal audit function and of its independent auditor. The Compensation Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities regarding executive compensation. The Nominating and Governance Committee identifies and recommends individuals who are qualified to become directors, oversees an annual review of the Board’s performance, and oversees the Company’s Ethics and Compliance Program and environmental, social, and governance risks. The Finance Committee assists the Board and management in discharging their responsibilities with regard to financing policies along with pension and profit-sharing trusts. The Science and Technology Committee advises the Board and management on matters involving the Company’s research and development programs. Only independent directors serve on our Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees. Communication with the Board The Schlumberger Board of Directors and individual members can be contacted at the following address by writing to our Corporate Secretary at the following address: Schlumberger Limited Attention: Corporate Secretary 5599 San Felipe, 17th Floor Houston, Texas 77056 Executive Compensation Our compensation program is designed so that the higher an executive’s position in the Company, the greater the percentage of compensation that is contingent on our financial performance, long-term stock price performance and individual performance— described as “at-risk” compensation. The Company believes that having a significant portion of our executives’ compensation at-risk more closely aligns their interests with the long-term interests of Schlumberger and its stockholders. Accordingly, our executive officers receive a greater percentage of their compensation through at-risk pay tied to Company performance than our other executives. A more detailed discussion of our executive compensation program is available in our 2019 proxy statement beginning on page 24 under the caption “Compensation Discussion and Analysis.” In setting our executives’ compensation, we believe that: • the pay of our named executive officers and other senior executives should be strongly linked to performance that is evaluated against strategic, operational and personal objectives; • our compensation program should enable us to recruit, develop, motivate, and retain top global talent, both in the short-term and long-term, by providing compensation that is competitive and by promoting the Company’s values of people, technology, and profit; • long-term incentive equity awards should encourage the creation of long-term stockholder value, align our executives’ compensation with the stockholder returns, and incentivize our executives to achieve difficult but attainable strategic and financial goals that support our long-term performance and leadership position in our industry; and  • through our executive stock ownership guidelines, our executives should be required to hold stock acquired through equity-based awards thereby aligning their interests with those of our other stockholders. Promotion from within the Company is a key principle at Schlumberger, and all our executive officers have reached their current positions through career development with the Company. Schlumberger sees diversity of its workforce as both a very important part of its cultural philosophy and a business imperative, as it enables the Company to serve customers anywhere in the world. We believe that our use of a consistent approach to compensation at all levels, irrespective of nationality, is a strong factor in achieving a diverse workforce comprising top global talent. Financial Performance2 (Stated in millions, except per-share amounts) Year ended December 31 2018 2017 2016 Revenue  $ 32,815  $ 30,440  $ 27,810  Income (loss) from  $ 2,138  $  (1,505)  $  (1,687)  continuing operations  attributable to Schlumberger  Diluted earnings (loss) per  $ 1.53  $  (1.08)  $  (1.24)  share from continuing operations  Cash dividends per share  $ 2.00  $ 2.00  $ 2.00  Cash flow from operations  $ 5,713  $ 5,663  $ 6,261  Independent Audit  PwC auditors reviewed our processes and procedures for 2018 and verified a selected subset of our 2018 data. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are, in all material respects, fairly presented and in accordance with Schlumberger procedural guidelines. Environmental data audited for 2018 includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, waste production, water consumption, spill, and energy consumption. Health and safety data audited for 2018 includes the number of fatalities, employee and contractor lost-time injuries and illnesses, and the associated workhours to determine frequencies and rates. PwC performed this work in accordance with their professional standards and with ISAE 3000 (assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information). 2 All financial figures referenced in US dollars. Sustainable Development Goals Schlumberger has chosen to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for the fourth consecutive year. The SDGs were introduced in 2015 as a call to action for all countries to end poverty, reduce inequality, spur economic growth, and improve health and education while also preserving the world’s oceans and forests and avoiding climate change. The SDG framework consists of 17 high-level Sustainable Development Goals and 169 underlying targets. In 2018, we collaborated with a third party to map the Company’s activities to the SDG framework. We evaluated all 169 underlying targets to identify which of the 17 SDGs would, if implemented at Schlumberger, enable us to have a positive impact while creating commercial value. After the evaluation, we selected 11 of the SDGs through which we can achieve the greatest positive impact, given their relevance to our global operations and Global Stewardship program. Furthermore, our focus on 11 corporate-level SDGs ensures that we concentrate on areas where we can have the greatest impact at a regional level. For 2019, our regional management teams will be provided data setting forth the most relevant SDGs for the countries in which they operate. Every regional manager will select which of the 11 SDGs to focus on and set regionally appropriate targets. We expect this process will increase the level of focus and prioritization of our environmental and social initiatives in the countries and regions in which we operate and better enable Schlumberger to assist in the achievement of the SDGs. 2018 Materiality Some of the issues that continue to be significant to our business are listed below. These issues were identified in consultation with our stakeholders and are based on an internal review that assessed risk, applicability, and potential degree of impact. Governance & Ethics Community Board Leadership, Responsibility, STEM & HSE Education and Diversity Employee Health and Safety Executive Compensation HSE Training and Management Ethics, Integrity, Compliance, Driving Safety and Injury and Transparency Prevention Fiscal Responsibility Contractor and Supplier Management Crisis Management Community Engagement Process Improvement Environment Stakeholder Engagement Unintended Releases Supply Chain Management to the Environment Human Rights Water Optimization Local Investment Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Employee Benefits and Compensation Climate Change Gender Diversity Biodiversity Global (Nationality) Diversity Risk Management Knowledge Management Chemical Transparency Recruiting Technology Impact Training and Development Energy Efficiency Notwithstanding the use of the terms “material” and “materiality” University Relations Waste Management in this report, Schlumberger believes that individual companies are Resource Consumption best suited to determine what information is “material” under the long-standing U.S. Supreme Court definition of that term and whether Research and Development to disclose this information in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission financial filings. Please refer to the “Disclaimer” on the inside back cover of this report for additional information.     ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Ethics Ethics We believe that to succeed, we must draw on the foundations that preserve our identity and establish the direction we must follow. This means understanding what defines us as a company, recognizing how we behave toward others, and defining how we approach our work. The Blue Print documents—Our Identity and Our Code of Conduct— are designed to help employees accomplish this. The Blue Print–Our Identity summarizes Our Purpose, Ambitions, and Values, expressing the mindset we need to succeed. The Blue Print in Action–Our Code of Conduct applies to all Schlumberger directors, officers, employees, and contractors. It is designed to help every employee and contractor handle business situations professionally and fairly. Our Code of Conduct also explains how individual actions reflect on the Company, and how the Company is, therefore, the sum of our actions. In addition, Ethics and Compliance (E&C) training throughout an employee’s career at Schlumberger focuses on the E&C risks they might encounter during their various roles. Employees are required to complete E&C training on a regular basis and as their careers progress. The E&C requirements are periodically adjusted so that employees continue to receive proper E&C training. Business Ethics Acting ethically involves more than simply complying with laws and regulations. It involves recognition that our decisions affect others. By keeping this in mind, we earn the respect, trust, and confidence of our customers, colleagues, shareholders, and others affected by our operations. By doing things right the first time, every time, we enhance our reputation for integrity with these stakeholders (Code of Conduct, p. 11). Our Mindset Our Mindset summarizes the behavior expected of every Schlumberger team member, including attitude, words and actions, as we interact with each other and with our external stakeholders. Commitment Integrity Understand and support Recognize the boundaries the direction ahead. and have the courage to act Make a difference. honestly and responsibly. Do the right thing. » Service focus » Continuous improvement » Decision making » Self development » Responsibility Drive Teamwork Take action and have Trust others to do their part a positive impact on and work together toward performance. common goals. Achieve excellence. Help the team succeed. » Creativity » Collaboration » Initiative » Communication » Adaptability » Coaching and mentoring » Results focus » Diversity Supply Chain Management Schlumberger maintains zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, and we expect the same from our contractors, suppliers and agents. They are required to comply with the laws of the countries in which they operate, and to act in a socially responsible and ethical manner, consistent with The Blue Print in Action. All suppliers, contractors, and agents must be approved and managed in accordance with internal requirements. Finally, we have always supported responsible sourcing of materials from suppliers that share our values, and we commit to avoid using conflict minerals in our sourcing activities (Code of Conduct, p. 12). Employee Whistle Blower Protection Employees who believe that a violation of Our Code of Conduct has occurred must report concerns to management using any available channel of communication. Schlumberger prohibits retaliation for good faith reporting of known and suspected violations of Our Code of Conduct, our internal requirements and applicable laws. However, any employee who intentionally reports false information will be subject to disciplinary action (Code of Conduct, pp. 1 and 12). Conflicts of Interest Conflicts between personal interests and the interests of Schlumberger or its customers may arise if an employee has personal, social, financial, political, or other interests that could interfere with his or her responsibilities as a Schlumberger employee. To avoid such conflicts of interest, employees must not hold financial stakes in companies that do business with Schlumberger. They must put Schlumberger business interests first, disclose all potential conflicts of interest, and avoid situations that create the appearance of a conflict of interest. If such a conflict exists, the affected employee must obtain written approval from an appropriate Schlumberger controller before continuing to work (Code of Conduct, p. 16). Stock Transactions Our Insider Trading Standard prohibits employees from releasing material, nonpublic information about Schlumberger such as unannounced marketing plans, new product releases, financial results, changes in dividends or earnings, planned mergers or acquisitions, and business strategies. Employees are required to keep such information confidential and may not buy or sell Schlumberger stock or publicly traded options of Schlumberger stock until the information becomes public. Nor may they act to acquire or sell stocks and options of other companies with which Schlumberger does business until the material, nonpublic information becomes public knowledge (Code of Conduct, p. 17). Gifts and Entertainment Accepting or giving business gifts or hospitality must never suggest an ability to influence business decisions. Items or benefits for which the recipient does not pay fair market value, including meals, entertainment, or tickets to sporting events, worth more than a nominal value cannot be offered to or accepted from any individual or organization that does or seeks to do business with Schlumberger (Code of Conduct, p. 19). Antibribery Schlumberger does not obtain a business advantage through bribery, improper payments or any other illegal means. No employee or contractor may offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes in any form or under any circumstance, including facilitation payments. In addition, payments to government officials are forbidden. Schlumberger is politically neutral and does not make political contributions  (Code of Conduct, p. 23). Fair and Ethical Business Practices Schlumberger competes aggressively, but fairly. We do not win business or maintain customer relationships by acting illegally or unethically. We do not enter into agreements that can restrict full and fair competition. We do not share pricing or bidding information with competitors or anyone outside the Company. We do not use Company funds or assets for political purposes. We may engage in direct dialogue with public policy decision makers, but we do not use lobbyists or seek to bring about particular outcomes or decisions (Code of Conduct, p. 23 and p. 26 , and Political Contributions). Blue Print in Action The Blue Print in Action reinforces the Blue Print–Our Identity, which summarizes our purpose, ambitions, values, and mindset we need to succeed. The Schlumberger Blue Print in Action–Our Code of Conduct is reviewed periodically and amended when necessary. In Brief All Schlumberger employees and contractors must: » know and obey the laws where the Company operates » not engage in actions unless they are ethical and legal » ask questions and raise concerns when issues arise » report actual or potential violations internally ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Ethics Trade Compliance Schlumberger provides products and services in many countries worldwide. Virtually all the countries in which we operate have customs laws, and many have additional trade controls that govern the import, temporary import, export or re-export of Schlumberger products, services, technology and software. Wherever we do business, we comply with all customs and trade control laws and regulations that apply to us, and we are especially mindful of technology transfers (Code of Conduct, p. 30). Business and Financial Transparency Schlumberger maintains honest and accurate business records. Employees must never hide, alter, falsify or disguise the true nature of any business transaction. Schlumberger complies with accounting and financial reporting standards and requires employees to comply with internal financial approval guidelines. We retain and destroy business records in accordance with local laws and Schlumberger requirements (Code of Conduct, p. 37). Conflict Minerals Schlumberger recognizes that there are serious human rights abuses associated with the extraction, transportation, and trade of minerals in some countries, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its adjoining countries. We have always supported responsible sourcing of materials from suppliers that share our values and we commit to avoid contributing to the conflict through our sourcing activity. Schlumberger does not tolerate corruption of any kind in dealings with its suppliers, and we expect our suppliers to adhere to the same standard. We have also developed a Conflict Minerals Position Statement. Information Protection Information Security Schlumberger is committed to protecting and respecting the privacy of any employee or third-party personal information that it processes. Specific internal data privacy requirements guide the collection, use, transfer (including transfer across international boundaries), release, disclosure and security of such data. These requirements also describe our expectations for third parties who process such data on our behalf (Code of Conduct, p. 31). Consumer Data Protection Information is the foundation of our business. Confidential or commercially sensitive information comes in many forms, including in conversation, on paper and electronically. We treat all electronic records that are created or transmitted using Company tools as Company property, and we take every available measure to preserve the confidentiality of Schlumberger data and our customers’ data  (Code of Conduct, p. 34). Intellectual Property Rights Protection Intellectual property that is created when a Schlumberger employee makes a new discovery or conceives of an idea, device, technique or process related to our business becomes the exclusive property of Schlumberger. Upon joining the Company, all employees agree to this concept as a condition of employment. The Company also protects its intellectual property and confidential information by using non-disclosure agreements and confidential disclosure agreements— before giving third parties access to such information. We also comply with Company restrictions on the installation and use of third-party software on Company computers (Code of Conduct, p. 35–36). Social Responsibility Human Rights Schlumberger is committed to conducting business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity. In 2018, the Company published its Human Rights Position Statement. Schlumberger recognizes the UN Guiding Principles, which are reflected in the Schlumberger Blue Print in Action – Our Code of Conduct, and in our policies and procedures. Our human rights due diligence processes to identify, assess, and manage the human rights risks arising from our business activities center on employee and contractor rights, the rights of the local communities where we work and live, security arrangements, and the risk of human rights violations within our supply chain (Code of Conduct, p. 27, and Human Rights Position Statement). Contributing to Development We continue to contribute to the social development and well-being of our communities by actively advancing education and health awareness as well as supporting initiatives that improve youth education and living conditions. We foster the economic development of these communities by recruiting, hiring, and training where we work; promoting from within; and complying with international labor standards and local content requirements. Schlumberger has developed a set of local content guiding principles that provide direction to management teams when they are formulating and implementing country-specific local content strategies (Code of Conduct, p. 27). Equal Opportunity–No Discrimination With product sales and services in more than 120 countries and employing approximately 100,000 people who represent over 140 nationalities, one of Schlumberger’s greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce. Employees of many nationalities and backgrounds work together to achieve common objectives. As a global company, we encourage fair employment practices and offer equal opportunities to all our employees and contractors. Schlumberger obeys the employment laws of the countries in which it operates and does not engage in discrimination based on race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, religion, union membership, or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as promotions, rewards, and access to training (Code of Conduct, p. 27). Labor Practices In 2018, in line with the labor principles of the UN Global Compact, Schlumberger updated its Working Condition Requirements, which provide a common baseline for the expected treatment of all employees, contractors, temporary workers, and trainee workers. The requirements, first published in 2005, promote respect for the rights and welfare of our employees and those working within its supply chain, by ensuring that: employment is freely chosen; child labor shall not be used; no discrimination is practiced; no harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed; fair wages are paid; no worker should pay a fee for a job; working hours are not excessive; freedom of association is respected; complaints and feedback systems for workers are in place; and working conditions are safe and hygienic. Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Schlumberger prohibits any use or contracting, directly or indirectly, of slavery, human trafficking, child labor, or any form of forced labor. In 2018, Schlumberger formed a cross-functional working group to review the practical steps the Company takes to prevent modern slavery in our business and our supply chain. We also commissioned a high-level risk assessment of our supply chain to better understand our most important risks, implement additional procedures to mitigate these risks, and address any issues that arise (Code of Conduct, p. 27). Community Impacts Schlumberger continues to implement its social risks management process, launched in 2011, to realize our commitment, expressed in the Company’s Human Rights Position Statement, to: identify, prevent, mitigate, and resolve social risks and impacts; optimize employment and contracting opportunities for communities; and ensure that community concerns, issues, or problems are taken seriously. To manage social and environmental issues, risks, and impacts in our projects with a large social footprint, Schlumberger Production Management (SPM) continues to implement our Social and Environmental Management Standard, which recognizes the International Finance Corporation (World Bank Group) Environmental and Social Performance Standards as a key point of reference. The standard provides a framework for managing our local impacts and ensuring that we respect the rights of individuals and groups in the communities where we live and work. The standard provides specific guidance in six social and six environmental subject areas. Security and Human Rights Sometimes we operate in dangerous areas. Schlumberger is committed to providing optimum protection for our employees and assets without infringing on the human rights of others. Schlumberger and contractors under Schlumberger operational control are required to ensure that security arrangements are the most appropriate in the circumstances and consistent with applicable laws and international standards, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Environmental Responsibility Operations Integrity Operations integrity means that every employee commits to doing the job right the first time, every time. We do this to protect our people, our communities, and the environment, and to deliver high-quality technology and services to our customers. To help make continuous quality improvements, we participate in all required audits and periodic assessments (Code of Conduct, p. 11, 14). Protecting the Environment Our advanced technologies enable our customers to lower their environmental impacts while optimizing the recovery of nonrenewable resources. By combining our technologies with increased engagement in the communities where we work, we are lowering emissions, decreasing water usage, and reducing unplanned releases. Addressing Climate Change As a global technology leader, we believe that our ability to address climate change issues with new technologies and increased operational performance is integral to the energy industry’s global initiative to reduce its carbon footprint. Schlumberger technologies are already directly and indirectly helping our customers reduce or avoid emissions, lower water usage, improve chemistry applications, and increase oil and gas production by using fewer resources. Our corporate strategy includes the development of advanced technologies for faster drilling, reduced surface and subsurface footprint, and improved reservoir recovery and production—all of which contribute to lowering resource requirements and creating fewer emissions per hydrocarbon unit produced. Environmental Management Our HSE management system has included environmental quality management for more than 18 years. This system has been independently reviewed for conformance to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System standard, and for conformance to environmental standards of the International Finance Corporation. Areas Covered by the SPM Social and Environmental Management Standard Social Community Relations Management of Nuisance Local Content Social Investment Indigenous Peoples and Cultural Heritage Land Acquisition and Land Access Environmental Waste Management Water Resource Management Management of Greenhouse Gases and Air Emissions Environmental Emergency Management Land and Biodiversity Management Hazardous Materials Management 