SLB 2022 Sustainability ReportClimate ActionSustainability Framework:GovernanceOverviewPeopleContentsSearchPrintBack/ForwardNatureNatureFocus areas:Safeguarding Biodiversity We design and manage all our operations to minimize the impact on ecosystems and biodiversity across the life cycle of each facility, activity, product, and service.  Protecting Natural Resources We strive to minimize our impact on the environment by preventing pollution, reducing natural resource consumption and emissions, and reducing and recycling waste.  Enabling Circularity SLB enables circularity through responsible resource procurement and waste management in conjunction with engineered solutions to promote the longevity of product use. You can learn more about our integrated approach to.Nature here.SLB has identified three key environmental areas of focus that are significant for our operations, based onÊstakeholder engagement, impact, and risk. Our focus is advancing environmental sustainability by minimizing our impact on ecosystems and biodiversity, conserving natural resources, and promoting circularity throughout the lifecycle of our technology. In 2022, we focused on improving our understanding of how, as SLB, we impact environmental sustainability. We are building our roadmap for the future, currently focused on water and circularity, assigning clear ownership within our company and setting targets for the years to come.IN FOCUSOffshore Atlantic Sustainability in Action Safeguarding 	BiodiversityThe Offshore Atlantic Sustainability in Action week was held in May 2022. The week saw 700+ volunteers come together in almost 40 engagements organized across several locations in Europe. This included both internal and external engagements covering STEM, environmental awareness, supplier engagement, clean.up.drives, tree planting and muchÊmore.Approximately 200 people participated in these external engagements, including school children and suppliers. 18Êsustainability initiatives focused on nature and reduced personal consumption kicked-off as.partÊof.the.week across several locations.SLB designs and manages its operations to minimize the impact on ecosystems and biodiversity across the lifecycle of each facility, activity, product, or service. In 2022, SLB focused on biodiversity protectionÑempowering our local teams to use our risk-based process to protect wildlife, rehabilitate and restore land, prevent land contamination and manage decommissioning. Biodiversity ProtectionIn Brazil, we partnered with a third party to help preserve the Biological Reserve Uni‹o. Located in the state of Rio de Janeiro, the reserve has more than 300 species of native trees, in addition to bromeliads, orchids and vines, and is also home to many endangered species which are at risk due to human activity. The forest is important for emissions removal and is essential to the maintenance of springs and waterways, contributing to the water supply of some of the surrounding communities. To raise awareness, with the support of our employees, their families, and our customers, we have created an environmental education program for schools, and we engineered walking trails to connect people with nature Ð including enabling accessibility to the forest to those with disabilities and mobility challenges. We have also developed a program to monitor and protect over 15,000 native trees from invading species.In the Amazonian region, operations take place in areas with potential of biodiversity risks. Rescue and relocation of species is carried out in coordination with local environmental authorities in partnership with our wildlife-rescue brigades. In 2022, our brigades intervened in 14 critical cases. In one case a baby capybara entered a field camp. It was rescued and transported to a reserve to.be released into the wild according to local regulations. In Peru, we collaborated with our customer PetroTal to obtain a positive net balance through zero net biodiversity loss. PetroTal operates in a remote location in the Pacaya Samiria National Reserve, the second largest natural protected area in Peru. To minimize habitat impacts, the operational footprint should be minimized via reduction of use of roads, lowering emission and eliminating waste. SLB implemented lower-toxicity fluid systems, reduced solid drilling waste by 60%, and reduced water consumption and water discharge. Empowering Local TeamsBird feeders that distribute food and water during the winter and nesting period can help protect local bird species from environmental factors such as destruction of their habitat by growing urbanization, pollution, and noise that can impact natural food availability. At our Clamart facility in France, bird feeders are printed with our Fused Deposition Modeling 3D printer using an acrylonitrile styrene acrylate filament to provide weather resistance and enhanced robustness. Nesting boxes and feeders were also made from wooden crates that were previously used to transport tools, and water points were installed for local wildlife. To support the facilityÕs beehive, many trees, lavender, sunflowers, raspberries, and other aromatic plants were planted at the location. Employees attended discovery sessions to learn about the bees and become familiar with the work of beekeepers while waiting for the honey to be collected.Also, in France, at our facility in Montpellier, employees have created and are responsible for the maintenance of a vegetable garden. Experts are consulted on the planting schedule and the harvests will be distributed to.all employees. A group of employees in Iraq have created a PAWS Ð Animal Welfare Act Committee to protect animals around SLB locations. The committeeÕs mission statement focuses on the belief that animals deserve the ability to live as they wish, without being negatively impacted by humans. Key actions include keeping cats and dogs away from the workshops and operational facilities, vaccinating feral cat populations and monitoring them to avoid a rise in the rat population. We are expanding our formal water stewardship strategy beyond our existing water management process. Our strategy includes metering, detailed reporting, and leveraging enhanced water risk assessments. These actions will help us identify water conservation opportunities and better understand the locations where our facilities, employees, suppliers and communities are most vulnerable to water risks. Our 2022 water stewardship focus areas were our water risk assessment, water efficiency, and water filtration, reuse and harvesting. Water Risk AssessmentTo assess the risk of water scarcity in the areas where we operate, we mapped all our facilities against worldwide water-stressed areas as defined by the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. This analysis enables us to prioritize actions for investment in water recycling and restoration in the most critical places. Water Efficiency By assessing our baseline water consumption metrics, we can improve our water efficiency and provide the visibility needed for our locations to prioritize and improve their water stewardship. Our focus on water efficiency in 2022 enabled us to identify our 2023 investment areas and develop our water management framework. Approximately 20% of approved 2022 Sustainability Impact Award projects for funding in 2023 focused on water efficiency or water conservation initiatives. One noteworthy project is at the Middle East Learning Center which will treat and recycle 100% of its wastewater from its facility and re-use it for irrigation purposes. This initiative will impact approximately 110,000 cubic meters (m3) of water annually. Smart metering for water is an effective tool for water efficiency monitoring. In 2022, we have prepared for the deployment of water smart meters in facilities covering 50% of our water consumption globally, in an effort to provide data integrity for our baseline. WATER USE IN THOUSANDS OF CUBIC METERS5,6025,0004,6514,0003,6253,6043,0002,0002019202020212022Protecting Natural 	ResourcesSLB realizes the importance of respecting and protecting the worldÕs natural resources. Understanding our current water stewardship performance and scaling future impact from efficiencies and technology investment will be the basis for our success. 2022 WATER RISK ASSESSMENTRisk clarification.Low.Low Ð Medium.Medium Ð high.High.Extremely highWe continue to review our approach to protecting natural resourcesLearn more here.Water TreatmentSystems for comprehensive management of produced water, seawater, and wastewaterProtecting Natural Resources continuedIN FOCUSWater saving system: 
beyond water savingWater Filtration, Reuse and HarvestingSLB is committed to responsibly managing shared water resources by minimizing freshwater use and effluent discharge. In 2022, SLB invested in water filtration, reuse and harvesting pilot projects at 11 locations globally in an effort to improve our water stewardship impact. Building on these projects, we have allocated capital for 2023 to fund a portfolio of key water stewardship programs representing an investment increase of 20% year on year.In Angola, weÕve added a water filtration system to the wash bay at one of our largest facilities in Luanda. The water is filtered, treated, and then re-used in the wash bay. The system is saving approximately 5,000 m3 of water per year. Certain SLB field sites reuse water for cleaning purposes. The used water is filtered, and then used as the first wash in cleaning tools and machinery. This practice is estimated to reduce water consumption by 10-20% each year. Water reuse systems are incorporated in all new construction and existing facility upgrades pending local conditions and requirements. At our largest facility in Oman, we installed a water treatment plant, constructed by a regional supplier, to help us treat process water for internal re-use. We are currently saving approximately 30,000 m3 of water per year, as well as reducing GHG emissions associated with.sewage removal transportation. Treated water is now being returned to the process and used for irrigation and.landscaping applications. Location Conservation PlansIn order to minimize SLBÕs impact on the environment, all.North America technology centers and mines, as.well as our top consuming sites in operations, were.connected to their energy, water, and waste data to assist with establishing and maintaining a ÒSite Conservation Program.Ó Using each siteÕs 2021 metrics as the baseline, the plans take into account energy, water consumption, waste production, and vehicle idling, and provide information and instructions to support sustainability planning and implementation to meet short- and long-term objectives. Locations are responsible for maintaining their plans, and quarterly status reviews are held with the management team and key improvements are shared with other locations for review and inclusion in other sitesÕ.plans.In partnership with T&D Sustent‡vel, in Brazil, SLB implemented an integrated water management system, which combines technology and specialized services, with a focus on combating water waste, achieving savings of approximately 2.7K m3 of water or approximately one Olympic size swimming.pool.10 MONTHS OF SERVICES PROVIDED BY T&D IN 2021/22Up to 55%of monthly 
cost savings>$40,000 AND 
~4.8K M3 OF WATER.SAVEDImplies a reductionÊof >23t of CO2, the equivalent 
of planting nearly 950.treesWould quench theÊthirst of >2.7mchildrenCould supply 
a city with ~38,000people forÊone daySource: T&D Sustent‡velIN FOCUSLithium Batteries Enabling 	CircularityTo enable circularity throughout our company in 2022, we focused on maintaining and prolonging our technologies, product reuse and redistribution, refurbishment and remanufacturing techniques, 
and recycling.SLBÕs Technology Lifecycle Management (TLM) function oversees the acquisition, maintenance, and improvement of a wide range of assets, from land vehicles to downhole mechanical and electrical tools with the goal of optimizing reliability, sustainability, and performance to meet our customersÕ needs. The engineering and maintenance teams within the TLM function provide reliable and efficient maintenance of our assets throughout our global maintenance network. A key insight that comes from this network is the return on experience from our people on the condition of our assets while maintained. Through this, we continually seek to extend useful life and expand operating envelopes, thus enhancing circularity performance.Maintain and Prolong To optimize the maintenance schedule based on operating environment, TLM is moving from traditional time-based maintenance to condition-based maintenance. This reduces waste, reduces risk, and.extends the useful life of tools. Why it matters: Traditional time-based maintenance results in excessive transportation and servicing. Assets are put on a schedule to be moved and maintained regardless of need, generating excess waste. By switching to condition-based maintenance, we can optimize maintenance levels for each asset based on needs, reducing resources consumed during maintenance and improving asset availability. This capability is being further enhanced through new digital technologies with.intelligent health analyzers that advise on tool health and maintenance needs.An additional benefit to condition-based maintenance is prolonging the life of our assets through focusing on component life limiters and performance enhancements. The TLM organization is continually implementing design changes and customizing maintenance schedules to extend the life of the tools and their consumables to support principles of circularity and reduce transportation.waste.SLB technologies use lithium batteries to provide continual and on-demand power. This.use is evolving through leveraging each of the circularity loopÕs capabilities:	Maintain Ð Batteries are stored, prepared, and distributed through the TLM network	Prolong Ð Battery life consumption is tracked to ensure maximum utilization during.operations	Reuse Ð In 2022, SLB deployed a lithium metal polymer rechargeable battery as a replacement to the liquid cathode lithium metal batteries	Recycle Ð In 2022, 46 tons of consumed batteries were recycled at approved recycling facilities.Additionally, in certain applications, SLB technologies are able to run in battery-less mode, eliminating the need for a battery.We develop engineered solutions to.maintain and recycle our assets 
so that they have a longer useful life.OUR REPAIR NETWORK IN NUMBERSTOTAL WASTE GENERATED IN THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONSIN FOCUSCoiled TubingIn our Reservoir Performance Division, improvements to the circularity of our coiled tubing technology has doubled the time between intrusive servicing of its hydraulic powerpack, reducing waste and extending product life. Additionally, through modeling and simulation combined with corrosion mitigation practices, coiled tubing life has been extended by 18%. These developments increase asset uptime and reduce unnecessary maintenance, 
logistics, and consumables.70063960050040030020014010911010002021202220192020900+ members in our online internal knowledge sharing technical communities>300 repair experts supported the introduction of circularity practices in maintenance locations Enabling Circularity continuedWELL CONSTRUCTION NETWORK HIGHLIGHTSIN FOCUSPlastic RecyclingIn Guyana, to reduce our disposal of waste to landfills, we have partnered with a local supplier to recycle and re-purpose our plastic tote tanks. This is the first company plastic recycling initiative in Guyana. We have already shredded more than 4,000 tote tanks and recycled the plastic to be made into detergent bottles. SLB CIRCULARITY LOOPReuse and Redistribute To follow circularity principles, SLB technology is designed in.a.modular manner enabling assets to be reconfigured easily to meet our customersÕ needs across different requirements and to save resources. Why it matters: In the past, when a new requirement was given by a customer, an asset could be completely redesigned as a standalone tool. This would then require new asset manufacture, increasing the fleet size and resources to maintain. Asset modularity combined with a focus on fleet management helps to maximize asset global availability, avoid new manufacture, decrease transportation needs, and reduce maintenance requirements.Refurbish and Remanufacture The TLM function has a network of repair experts, engineers and third-party experts, as well as a defined qualification processes to repair and recover components that historically were disposed of.Why it matters: TLM continually optimizes maintenance programs to minimize wasteful servicing of assets. However, due to the nature of the demands on our technology, when assets are disassembled to component level, some parts will be required to be replaced. Historically, these components were disposed of and replaced with new ones. Through our repair network, techniques to fully recover components to as-new condition have been developed. This program greatly improves our circularity capabilities for both mechanical and electrical components.Recycle In collaboration with our Procurement and Supply Chain (P&SC) team, TLM works with global experts and local suppliers to identify economically viable recycling opportunities for components or tools that are no longer usable.Why it matters:Inevitably, there is an end of useful life of all components and tools used in our operations. By working with local recycling facilities, we can reclaim scrap that can be re-used for other applications. Working with local facilities also reduces transportation needs.At our Houston technology center, under P&SC leadership, drilling bits that have reached their end of life are recycled. Most bits are made of tungsten-carbide matrix material that can be pulverized, decontaminated, and returned to make new bits. In.2022, the center doubled its year-over-year volume of material sent for recycling, and is using up to 70% of reclaimed powder to make new bits. Finite materials20% + life extension of more than 20% of collars saving.~150,000 metric tons of CO2e Suppliers>360 qualified repairs to extend consumablesÕ life, saving >85,000 metric tons of CO2eRecycleSLB technology centers and manufacturing275 electronic parts refurbished saving ~500.metric.tons of CO2e Refurbish and remanufactureTLM maintenance network265 metric tons of material recycled into new bits, saving ~80 metric tons of CO2eReuse and redistributeMaintain and prolongIN FOCUSTechnology CollarsIn the Well Construction Division, through.our component repair process, we have utilised advanced techniques such as extended reach weld repair, high corrosion material and micro laser welding along with thermal spray and electroplating to extend the life of tool collars far beyond legacy limits. Since 2022, this process has saved approximately 150,000 metric tons of.CO2e as compared to the alternative of.manufacturing a replacement.SLB OperationsIN FOCUSStimulationEnabling circularity for fluid ends in the demanding conditions of unconventional fracturing operations for our stimulation pumps resulted in reducing our CO2e footprint by 500 tons. This was achieved by reducing premature failures and realizing inherent life enabled through remote surveillance and performing in-country rework programs on.damaged fluid ends to realize life extension.We continue to review our approach 
to enabling circularityLearn more here.Minimize Systematic Leakage