Regional and Local Technical Capability We have two themes relating to regional technology strategies: Fit for Basin and Technology Access. In both cases our ambition is to create additional growth and return opportunities for Schlumberger in a basin, while at the same time creating local value and opportunity in the basin or country and indirectly contributing to energy access. In-country value creation and local partnerships are key components of these solutions. Fit for Basin In Fit for Basin, we develop technology to address a specific technical challenge inside a basin that cannot be addressed from within the global technology portfolio, either due to technical specifications or commercial challenges. These solutions could incorporate both hardware and  software customization. They also provide enhanced customer engagement and, in many cases, an opportunity to accelerate  Schlumberger Manufacturing Center opened in 2020 in King Salman Energy Park, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. opportunities and more than 80 technology solutions are currently in some stage of development. An example of Fit for Basin is our facility in King Salman Energy Park in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, now delivering completions products adapted for the local market, creating in-country value and local supply, and positioning us as regional leaders in production systems equipment. Technology Access In Technology Access projects, we partner with local service providers by selling or leasing selected Schlumberger technologies to them, which they in turn operate for their customers. In these ventures, Schlumberger gains access to new markets, our local competitors get the opportunity to work with established Schlumberger technologies, and local customers gain  access to technologies they would otherwise not have had the opportunity to use as part of their local commercial arrangements. This also supports the corporate transition to a more asset-light portfolio, especially when implemented in business lines that are traditionally capital intensive. We have more than 45 current Technology Access agreements. One example of a Technology Access project is our wireline technology access collaboration in China, which enables us to participate in a new market. We are contributing to growing the capabilities of our partner, China Petroleum Logging Company, with our ThruBit* through-the-bit logging services and leverage of local manufacturing and support. Diversity as a Competitive Advantage At Schlumberger, “People First” is the first element of our corporate  strategy. We also recognize that our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain a highly competent and diverse workforce has been the key  to our success for many decades. As a service company, we believe it  is critical for our people to be able to communicate with our customers  in their native languages and to share the values of the people in the countries where we work. We are known as a company with global  resources and local expertise, able to understand, respect, and work  Inclusion is necessary to build a truly diverse workplace, and details about our comprehensive diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts are in the “ESG Disclosures and Performance Data” section of our Sustainability Report. Schlumberger’s long-standing commitment to promote nationality diversity is particularly important in the context of increasing  regionalization and deglobalization and represents a competitive advantage for Schlumberger. For decades, we have had a stated  ambition of maintaining a workforce nationality mix that is aligned to  our geographical revenue mix and have been disclosing our current status versus this metric for years. Additionally, we are on track to reach our interim milestone of  25% women in our salaried workforce by 2025 and are setting the  next milestone of 30% by 2030 to continue to progress. Energy transition and changing geopolitics are both increasingly driving regionalization. Schlumberger is competitively well positioned from both  a workforce and a technology perspective to manage this risk and capture the opportunity that it represents for the company and for the countries where we work. Creating Opportunity Scorecard Metric Year-End Ambition Women in salaried workforce 23% 30% by 2030 Nationality vs. revenue mix1 <1% Within ±5% 2020 Revenue Contribution North America – 23% Middle East and Asia – 36% Europe, CIS and Africa – 25% Latin America – 15% Other – 1% 2020 Nationality Mix in the local culture of our customers. As such, we recognize that  Note 1: Revenue-weighted average difference between percentage of revenue mix and percentage of nationality mix. diversity and inclusion are not just the right thing to do—they are  a business imperative. “On an annual basis, each local leadership team submits a sustainability plan, aligned to its focus SDGs and linked to business objectives, through a centralized portal." One size does not fit all when it comes to sustainable development and addressing the climate challenge. The UN Sustainable Development Goals provide countries and businesses with a consistent framework to focus sustainability efforts on the ground. While at the corporate level  Schlumberger’s focus is on SDG 7 and 13 (Taking Climate Action) and  SDG 8 and 10 (Creating Opportunity), we are also “Empowering Local Teams” to focus on the environmental and social priorities that are most impactful for their local stakeholders. To inform that focus, we have mapped SDG gaps by country for all countries where we have a physical presence. These gaps were assessed based on input from local teams, publicly available data, and interviews with local external stakeholders. We also conducted workshops  with local management teams in many of our large operational and  manufacturing facilities. With this input, local management teams select several SDGs on  which to concentrate that are best aligned to their business goals and stakeholder needs. On an annual basis, each local leadership team  submits a sustainability plan aligned to its focus SDGs through a  centralized portal. In 2021, all Schlumberger GeoUnits submitted plans totaling more than USD 35 million in planned local sustainability  projects and initiatives. Sustainability plans cover both mandatory  and discretionary investment and are reviewed through the portal for • SDG alignment • Local partnership opportunity with customers, suppliers, or local  organizations • Links to business objectives (such as cost, growth, business continuity risk mitigation) • Employee engagement opportunities. Empowered local teams drive employee engagement, which in turn  drives business performance. This also provides our local teams with the freedom and flexibility to adapt support as needs shift. For example, beginning in 2020, many of our local initiatives shifted support to  community-based COVID-19-related response efforts. By engaging our workforce in these efforts, we expect to positively impact our overall business results, while at the same time making a meaningful positive  impact in our local communities. To measure how our workforce feels about our sustainability efforts, we added a question to our 2021 annual engagement survey regarding employee perception of our sustainability efforts. For this first time we included the question, 72% of employees viewed our sustainability efforts positively. Our ambition is for more than 85% of our workforce to respond positively to this question. An illustration of the business value of operationalizing sustainability comes from Ecuador. The local team has focused on doing the right thing, in an intentional and relevant way in order to have the greatest positive impact on the local community. Because we are considered part of the local ecosystem, in 2019 the community supported us through local fuel subsidy protests and immediately after, in helping restart operations quickly. The result was that we had only three days of downtime, while other companies in the area faced downtime periods that were longer. 