COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Employee Engagement: Workplace Solutions THIS IS SCHLUMBERGEREmployee Engagement: Workplace Solutions Schlumberger employees around the world are applying their technical abilities to reduce our resource consumption, build green facilities, improve their workplace environments, and enhance the local communities where we live and work. In 2010, Research and Engineering (R&E) launched a Lean and Green program to actively target environmental wastes in the form of energy, water, materials, emissions, and other solid and liquid wastes. The success of the program has depended on collaboration among many Schlumberger teams, particularly Engineering, Manufacturing, Sustaining, Supply Chain, HSE, Facilities, and Finance. Lean and Green Despite a difficult global economic climate, the Lean and Green Program achieved its annual objective in 2015, with 29 locations undertaking a total of 34 projects to increase efficiency and generate substantial financial and environmental savings. The program positively engages employees across disciplines and provides a means to showcase innovations, environmental technologies, and best practices for environmental improvement. 34 Completed Projects Saved more than 5.46 million kWh of electricity, 492,076 liters of water, 192 liters of hydrocarbon fuel, almost 48,000 cubic meters of natural gas, 11.38 tonnes of materials, and over 26 tonnes of waste. Employee Engagement: Workplace Solutions THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD LEED-Certified Buildings In 2015, several buildings were recognized with Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) awards. LEED is a globally recognized symbol of excellence in green buildings. A few examples of our LEED program successes include: • DBD Dubai: LEED Gold, 2015 • Cikarang Integrated Base, Indonesia: LEED Silver, 2015 • Songkhla, Thailand: LEED Silver, 2015 • Office Dubai (under construction): designed to meet LEED Gold 2016 Green Site Sustainability Plan At a new Schlumberger facility in Astrakhan, Russia, a team of employees created a “Green Site Sustainability Plan 2015–2020” in order to achieve a sustainable community by 2020. The plan seeks to implant a green-office mentality in the minds of employees and contractors along with a culture of sustainable and responsible development. The plan, which envisions an open ecosystem with a minimum negative impact on the local environment, will focus on three core directives: environmental impact reduction, employee health and well-being, and social responsibility. Managing Print Services In 2015, Schlumberger Managed Print Services began implementing a new system to manage and optimize printing, copying, and scanning services around the world. The new system requires fewer printers and copiers in each company location and newer printers that are more efficient and use less power were installed. The goals of the new print services system are to reduce energy consumption and related costs, protect information, improve the user experience, standardize vendor criteria, and respect the environment. The secure print solution is being implemented worldwide. Taking a more global approach to printing enables cost savings of 20% to 30%. In 2015, the new system saved the company more than $1.3 million. Community By applying our high standards of conduct company-wide and fostering initiatives that benefit local communities, we strive to make a positive impact. The results of our efforts touch our employees, contractors, suppliers, and customers as well as the communities in which we live and work. Education THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENT      TRACK RECORD Education Because Schlumberger is immersed in science and technology, a key theme throughout our community outreach and social investment efforts is education, particularly in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines that underpin our business. Among our many community outreach initiatives are Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED), which offers learning opportunities for school children; HSE for Youth, which helps students understand and adopt HSE-related standards; and the Schlumberger Faculty for the Future program, which funds women from developing countries to pursue advanced graduate study in STEM subjects at renowned universities abroad. Schlumberger’s STEM-Oriented  Community Outreach Initiatives  Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development  Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development is an educational  program focusing on communities where Schlumberger people live and work.  A hands-on program that relies on the scientific and technological expertise   of our employee volunteers, SEED focuses on STEM topics through camps,    workshops, and classroom visits. The primary topics of focus are robotics,    computer science, and energy education.    Robotics includes an introduction to robotics, construction of robots,    programming via RobotC, and participating in competitive challenges.    Computer Science introduces students to computer-based programing along   with university partnerships. Workshops and educational programs with   Energy Education partners help students and teachers understand the highly  technical skillset needed to work in the energy industry.  Faculty for the Future   HSE for Youth   SEED  THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENT      TRACK RECORD Education Students Explore Coding and Robotics A pilot program in schools in Fort Bend, Texas, provides funding, teacher training, hardware, and software to support computer science studies, including coding and programming. In 2015, the program grew to include 44 coding and 24 robotics clubs and Schlumberger sponsored a number of robotics and coding competitions. As a part of the initiative, we donated $10 million worth of software packages to high schools in the area. These schools now have access to Petrel software, a Patented technology that provides sophisticated 3D visuals to identify and measure oil and gas reserves. STEM Workshops by the Numbers 190 61,519 1,151 3,130 Workshops Students Teachers Volunteers HSE for Youth The Schlumberger HSE for Youth program mobilizes employees and their spouses to share their expertise within our communities. It informs and empowers young people to make responsible and safe global and individual decisions regarding health, safety, and environmental (HSE) issues. 9 4,000+ 161 52 HSE Topics Youths Involved Workshops Countries Faculty for the Future The Schlumberger Foundation’s Faculty for the Future program enables women from developing economies to pursue advanced graduate studies in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics subjects at top-tier universities around the world. Since its launch in 2004, the program has awarded fellowships to more than 560 women from 78 countries. During the 2015–2016 academic year, Faculty for the Future fellows pursued postdoctoral studies in STEM disciplines at universities in 29 countries. 155  129  46  39  New Scholarships  Scholarships  Home Countries  STEM  Awarded  Renewed  of Participants  Disciplines  Health and Safety THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENT      TRACK RECORD Health and Safety Schlumberger has a long-standing commitment to maintaining the highest standards for the health and safety of our employees, customers, and contractors, and for environmental protection in the communities in which we live and work. Schlumberger strives to protect the health of employees, their dependents, and our contractors—and to manage their health risks in the workplace, in the field, and during travel on Company business. “Schlumberger has an unwavering commitment to safety and the protection of the environment in the places where we live and work.” –Richard Brown, VP HSE Health Good health management enables Schlumberger to reduce illness in the workplace, increase employee and family well-being, minimize medical evacuations and deaths, streamline health-care costs, increase customer retention and satisfaction, optimize business performance and the Company’s reputation, and reduce project disruptions while protecting the health of all involved. Our global network of doctors and health professionals provide medical support at Company locations on land, at sea, and in remote and hostile environments. Ebola In 2015, Schlumberger management, including HSE and medical personnel, created an Ebola Crisis Management Team to monitor the global epidemic, define company travel policy, track travel requirements and restrictions for airlines and countries, implement preventive screening measures, establish procedures for suspected Ebola cases, and develop a business continuity plan. We created a 24/7 Ebola hotline as well as a 15-minute Ebola awareness video that was distributed to all Schlumberger computers. THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENT      TRACK RECORD Health and Safety Health Day Health Day in September at the Schlumberger Technical Services facility in Pune, India, met with a high level of participation from the more than 500 employees on site. Seventy employees donated blood during a donation drive, health monitoring and diet consultation activities were well-attended, more than 170 employees had vision examinations, and a popular session was held on health issues for women. Awareness sessions were also held for all employees on swine flu and Dengue fever. Safety and Continuous Improvement Safety and Continuous Improvement was a key topic at two Schlumberger locations in August and September 2015. Employees at the Cikarang Integrated Base in Indonesia and the Tanggu Base in China gathered to learn about the Company’s continuous improvements, optimization initiatives, and safety culture. The bases split into four subgroups, each with a different set of objectives. During a walk around the facilities, each group identified issues, fixed what could be fixed, documented findings, and formulated remedial action plans for continuous improvement and optimization. Safety Schlumberger operations are supported by a robust safety management system. We maintain a safe and productive work environment that is free of alcohol, controlled substances, and illegal drugs. Crisis Management Schlumberger is continuing with initiatives to cascade its crisis management training programs throughout the organization. In 2015, five courses were held involving 95 delegates. This training incorporates best practices in crisis management techniques and practices using global academic experts and expertise from within the Company, and includes a practical exercise in crisis management. Contractor and Supplier Management In 2015, Schlumberger continued to strengthen contractor management initiatives with a specific focus on implementing a risk-based approach to managing land transportation contractors. These HSE requirements include compliance with Schlumberger policies for substance abuse and driving, as well as compliance with site rules such as the use of safe systems of work (permit to work, isolation, equipment guarding, and the use of safety systems), personal protective equipment, intervening to stop the job if unsafe acts or conditions are observed, reporting events and incidents, and complying with applicable regulatory requirements. Health and Safety THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENT    TRACK RECORD DROPS Standard Introduced Schlumberger introduced the DROPS Standard in 2015 that seeks to eliminate harm to people caused by falls from height and to prevent injury to people or damage to assets as a result of dropped objects. The risk-based DROPS Standard is fully aligned with industry best practices and was implemented in over 750 operational locations with more than 60,000 people achieving certification from the awareness training and over 1,300 personnel trained as DROPS Field Champions to lead the worksite-level implementation process. Injury Prevention We are committed to injury prevention for all employees and applicable contractors through the effective implementation of our own best practices and those from the industry to prevent and mitigate injury and risk. Driving Safety In terms of health and safety, our performance improved again in 2015. Our continued focus on driving and journey management led to a decrease in our automotive accident rate of more than 8% compared with 2014. 54,848 22,706 413,181,810 Drivers Vehicles Miles Driven Performance Data Schlumberger captures HSE performance data through an online, enterprise-level business system that consolidates all HSE information. Accessible by all employees, this system allows them to monitor reported HSE events, incidents, observations, and Risk Identification Reports. Schlumberger employees are actively encouraged to report and we use the data to benchmark our performance against industry data sources. We monitor trends and identify areas of concern for continuous improvement. Fatal Combined Lost-Time Accident Rate Injury Frequency (per 100M work hours) (per million work hours) 1.84 1.2 1.0 0.96 1.18 0.53 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Total Recordable Automotive Injury Frequency Accident Rate (per million work hours) (per million miles) 1.9 0.24 0.24 1.6 0.21 1.4 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 15       TRACK RECORD Social and Economic Impact THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER ENVIRONMENTSocial and Economic Impact Living where we work, recruiting locally, and being a good neighbor have long been a part of the Schlumberger presence in any host country. Our most significant socio-economic contributions are in providing employment and training for local workers and procuring goods and services locally. But we also have a role in building capacity and resilience at the local level to address social issues such as education and health—two key markers of community well-being and stability. By taking a long-term interest in our communities, we can often positively influence community development while at the same time manage operational risks. Our vision is to create shared value, where actions that generate business value can also generate social value. Investing Locally Our philanthropic activities reflect the Company’s values and focus on a limited range of social issues that call for strategic involvement and partnerships with community organizations. In-Kind Giving Commercial Initiatives  Community Initiatives  (millions)  (billions)  (millions)  (millions)  $10.7  $ 2.65  $18  $16.9  2014  2015  2014  2015  