Community Schlumberger’s long-established values have always included a commitment to invest in our people and local communities. By applying our high standards of conduct company-wide, our efforts have a positive impact on our employees, contractors, suppliers, and customers as well as the communities in which we live and work. In this Section Education  34  22,465  Health and Safety  38  Number of students that attended HSE for Youth or SEED Workshops.  Social and Economic Impact  46  Stakeholder Engagement  52  Employment and Human Capital  56  Stewardship in Action: Community  64  683 Number of women from developing and emerging countries awarded Faculty for the Future Fellowships since 2004. Local Initiatives and Global Impact 68 20 Years of SEED workshops and programs designed to inspire young people to pursue science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Learn more about the Schlumberger commitment to the community: www.slb.com/globalstewardship/community Education We believe that empowering the educational advancement of schoolchildren and women makes a powerful contribution to developing economies, as well as to the individuals themselves. Our educational focus is on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects. Through our outreach programs we offer learning opportunities for schoolchildren, help students understand and adopt HSE-related standards, and fund women from developing and emerging economies to pursue advanced graduate study in STEM subjects at top universities worldwide. Our community outreach programs are fully aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of ensuring quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all. Education Outreach Initiatives SEED Faculty for the Future HSE for Youth Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) is an internal education program that encourages STEM through camps, teacher professional development, workshops, and employee classroom visits. The program focuses on robotics, computer science, and energy education. Through SEED, Schlumberger engages employees, educators, retirees, and volunteers around the world to share their passion for learning and science with students. This hands-on program relies on the scientific and technological expertise of our employee volunteers, who directly engage with the communities where Schlumberger people live and work. Computer Science SEED sponsors workshops and clubs that introduce computer-based programming and coding to students as early as the second grade with an MIT-based platform called SCRATCH. To encourage more students to take an interest in computer science, we also donate resources related to our Petrel* E&P software platform to high schools and universities around the world. Through  Schlumberger NeXT we sponsor high school competitions using our Oilsim* program. Schlumberger has also partnered with Code.org, Microsoft TEALS, and local educational systems to support the professional development of teachers in computer science education. Robotics SEED sponsors schools and student clubs through a variety of learning opportunities, such as an introduction to robotics, robot construction, programming via RobotC, and competitive robot-building challenges. In robotics clubs, students learn about robotic programming and how Schlumberger engineers use robotics when designing our technology and tools to solve problems for our customers or communities. Energy Education We have formed partnerships with several organizations to develop workshops and educational programs that help students and teachers understand the highly technical skillset needed to work in the energy industry. These partnerships include the American Geosciences Institute, Society of Petroleum Engineers, and the Offshore Energy Center. We have also partnered with the Independent Petroleum Association of America to provide externships designed to introduce high school students to the energy industry. STEM Workshops by the Numbers 151 18,465 Workshops Students 811 1,655 Teachers Volunteers The Schlumberger Foundation awarded 50 new fellowships and renewed 111 fellowships in its Faculty for the Future program for the 2018–2019 academic year. Faculty for the Future Faculty for the Future, which is the flagship program of the Schlumberger Foundation, launched 14 years ago to narrow the gender gap in STEM subjects. This program enables women from developing economies to pursue advanced graduate studies in STEM subjects at top-tier universities around the world. To date, 683 women scientists from 80 developing countries have been granted financial support and are active members of the global scientific community. In 2018, the Schlumberger Foundation awarded 50 new fellowships and renewed 111 fellowships for the 2018–2019 academic year. To date, Faculty for the Future fellows have pursued doctoral and postdoctoral studies at 261 universities and research institutions around the globe. And their pursuit of higher education and research opportunities always takes place in a country other than their homeland. After completing their studies, the alumnae are required to return to their home countries where they can contribute to economic, social, and technological advancement, becoming role models and mentors for other girls and women. In addition to the financial support provided to these women, Faculty for the Future hosts in-person forums where fellows and alumnae meet to share their experiences and help foster an international community of women leaders in STEM. Each grant recipient is offered the opportunity of attending one of these forums during their research program. Participants meet and engage with distinguished scientists and listen to accomplished leaders share their insights. Through knowledge-sharing sessions and panel discussions, participants learn skills and techniques to raise their visibility and improve their chance of successfully impacting their community. In 2018, forums were held Boston and Abu Dhabi, with over 110 fellows and alumnae in attendance. In 2018, program leaders visited Nigeria, where 38 Faculty for the Future alumnae reside, to meet with local universities, research centers, industry partners, and government agencies. The visit helped the Schlumberger Foundation gather information on ways it can help alumnae build on the momentum Faculty for the Future provides and leverage their recently acquired skillsets to bring positive change to their local communities. Furthermore, the visit helped bring recognition to the program and alumnae from their home institutions, government officials, and non-government organizations. HSE for Youth   The Schlumberger HSE for Youth program mobilizes employees and their spouses to share expertise within the communities where we live and work. Launched in 2009, the program informs and empowers young people to make responsible, safe, globally and personally-considered decisions regarding health, safety, and environmental issues. In 2018, more than 4,000 young people participated in 206 HSE for Youth workshops held in more than 50 countries. Parents and other volunteers helped organize workshops to teach children how to stay alert, think calmly, and act quickly to protect themselves when at home, school, or elsewhere in the community. Participants included children of our customers; children from local communities. including schools and orphanages; and the children of Schlumberger employees. HSE for Youth workshops on a variety of topics have helped thousands of children learn about personal safety. HSE for Youth by the Numbers Location Number of Workshops Middle East and Asia Africa 30 Europe 20 North America South America Russia 32 Total 206 Topics Number of Workshops Injury Prevention Personal Security Internet Safety Road Safety HIV/AIDS  Prevention Climate Change/Environment Water Sanitation Malaria Prevention Ebola Prevention First Aid 75 Total 206 Health and Safety Schlumberger is committed to maintaining the highest health and safety standards for employees, customers, and contractors. Our commitment encompasses health and safety risks in the office and other facilities such as laboratories and workshops, out in the field, and when traveling on Company business. Our HSE Management System defines the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide, and our management team applies rigorous policies and standards throughout the Company. In addition, we have a long-standing commitment to sharing best practices through technical papers and other means such as active involvement with industry trade associations and specialist HSE organizations. Health To reduce work-related and location-specific health risks,  Schlumberger Active Campaigns  Schlumberger promotes industrial hygiene, ergonomics, a healthy  In 2018, Schlumberger initiated a series of health campaigns to  lifestyle, and preventive medicine. Good health management helps  encourage employees to be more physically active. The first  to reduce illness in the workplace, increase employee and family  campaign, Active Europe, asked employees in Europe to share their  well-being, and streamline health care costs for employees and the  physical activity on an internal site that converted the time spent  Company. It also helps increase customer retention and satisfaction,  on each activity to kilometers. The goal of the campaign was to  optimize business performance and the Company’s reputation, and  achieve 22,000 km of total physical activity, a number that  reduce project disruptions while protecting the health of all involved.  represents the distance between every Schlumberger location in  Europe. During the campaign, employees were also encouraged to  We have a global network of health professionals who provide  share stories and pictures of their activities on an internal social  medical support at our operational locations. Each of our operating  networking platform. The success of the Active Europe campaign  locations has a specific preventive training program with a focus on  inspired similar campaigns at Schlumberger locations around the  health and industrial hygiene, and each program is adapted to the  globe, including Central America, East Asia and Australia, North  working environment and location. Before new operations begin, and  Africa, North America, South East Asia, and Sub-Sahara Africa.  regularly thereafter, employees undergo medical checks and health- risk assessments.  Heart Healthy Campaign   Schlumberger has been supporting the American Heart Association  through the Houston Heart Walk for seven consecutive years. In  2018, more than 200 employees and family members joined the  walk to raise awareness about the benefits of exercise. Part of the  global Heart Healthy campaign included providing temporary CPR  training kiosks at Schlumberger facilities to teach employees what  to do in case of a heart attack and raise awareness of cardiovascular  risk factors. The kiosks included a simulated human torso, like those  used in regular classroom CPR training sessions, so employees and  their family members could practice the movements and pressure  needed to correctly perform CPR.  In 2018, we launched the HSE Communication Toolkit, a central repository for HSE resources. The toolkit contains user-friendly, interactive materials for increasing engagement and maximizing learning during HSE gatherings. HSE Communication Toolkit • HSE Nudges to help influence employee behavior • Schlumberger SAFE Meetings and Moments to enhance HSE learning • Instructions for facilitating a Schlumberger SAFE Forum • Videos and presentations to use in safety meetings  • Posters and other infographics to prompt discussion in the workplace Safety Shared Responsibility for Safety Schlumberger maintains a safe and productive work environment free from alcohol, controlled substances, and illegal drugs. We design our equipment and workplaces to enable safe operations and we provide comprehensive training in injury prevention, driving safety, hazard identification, and risk assessment and management. We require comprehensive reporting of hazardous situations and conditions to identify opportunities for improvement and remedial actions to prevent recurrence. We also empower and obligate employees to intervene and stop any job if they consider a situation to be unsafe, a practice fully supported by Company management. HSE Management System  The Schlumberger HSE Management System states the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide regarding health, safety, and environment (HSE) and security. We establish and communicate HSE priorities, objectives, and requirements to all employees, contractors, customers, and third parties associated with our business. Our corporate HSE standards are implemented in all our operations and comprehensively assessed to assure compliance. Fatalities Regretfully, Schlumberger suffered three work-related fatalities in 2018. One contractor and one employee were fatally injured in heavy vehicle crashes in the United States. One contractor was fatally injured in an explosion at a customer rig-site in Algeria. Each of these fatalities was studied extensively, remedial actions were implemented to prevent reoccurrence and the associated lessons learned were communicated throughout the Company. Security Management Due to the nature of our global business and operations, Schlumberger maintains a focus on managing security for our personnel and assets. Our employees and their families, contractors and third parties, and our Company assets may be exposed to security-related threats, including armed conflict, criminality, and civil unrest. Our objective is to reduce security risks to a level “as low as reasonably practicable” (ALARP) through effective implementation of fundamental and risk-based controls and active continuous monitoring of security conditions. All contracted security specialists are contractually required to adhere to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Schlumberger and contractors under Schlumberger operational control are required to ensure that security arrangements are the most appropriate in the circumstances and consistent with applicable laws and the following international standards: a) United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, b) Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, c) United Nations Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials, d) United Nations Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms. Crisis Management Schlumberger continued to cascade its crisis management training programs throughout the organization, and during 2018 approximately 300 employees around the world attended a course. Crisis and Emergency Management training enables attendees to participate in practical exercises that incorporate crisis management best practices, techniques from global academic experts, and expertise from within the Company. Health and Safety Nudges Nudge Theory is a concept developed in behavioral economics for understanding how people think, make decisions, and behave to enable the design of choices that influence the decisions individuals make. Subtle smart nudges can promote and influence safer and healthier behaviors. In 2018, we designed and released 10 nudges to influence healthy behaviors and 14 nudges to influence safe practices. Examples of nudges include: Health • Posters and nutrition information in breakrooms and on vending machines to influence healthy eating • Floor stickers and posters that lead employees to the water cooler and remind them to drink more water • Calorie-count stickers and posters on stairs to encourage employees to take the stairs instead of the elevator Safety • Posters to remind employees to ensure they are wearing the correct protective equipment • Floor and wall stickers to remind employees to use handrails when walking up or down stairs • Stickers on vehicle visors and keychains to remind employees to remain vigilant and drive safely • Reflective tape on the back of vehicles to make them stand out and prevent rear-end collisions Contractor Management In 2018, we revised our Contractor Management Standard to align with the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers industry best practices. Schlumberger also continues to use industry best practices as the global basis for capability assessments of Land Transport Contractors. Injury Prevention  Schlumberger is committed to injury prevention for employees and contractors through effective implementation of internal best practices and those from the oil and gas industry. In 2018, Schlumberger released an updated risk-based Injury Prevention Standard detailing the controls required to minimize the risks of workplace injuries related to stepping, handling, manual lifting, and working with machinery, equipment, and tools. The release of the revised Injury Prevention Standard was accompanied by updated injury prevention training, provided to new employees within the first month of employment, with annual refresher coaching supported by 380 trainers around the globe. In addition, the Schlumberger “Warm Up To Work” program was refreshed. This program includes exercises for workshop and field personnel to warm up their muscles and increase flexibility and the range of motion of joints. For office personnel, a series of stretching exercises help to prevent neck, shoulder, and back discomfort. The program also has an interactive website with short videos that show how to perform the exercises correctly. Warm Up To Work was designed to improve the health and wellbeing of our workforce and increase awareness about the importance of injury prevention at the workplace. Annual analysis of our HSE data reveals that over 47% of personal injuries are related to hands, arms, and fingers. To address this type of injury, communication programs and initiatives on hand and finger injury safety continue to be a focus area. Driving Safety   In 2018, our focus continued to be on driver training and journey management, and the implementation of new technologies to improve driver performance. Our risk-based driving and journey management approach provides effective management of driving activities in all the countries we operate. The comprehensive driver management system consolidates our best practices to systematically eliminate accidents through training, journey and trip management, safe driving behavior, and compliance with Our Code of Conduct. Every Schlumberger driver, from field to office, is required to take regular fit-for-purpose driver training, including the use of simulators and driver-improvement monitors to provide real-time, in-vehicle driving performance feedback. We also actively share our experience and expertise with our customers and the communities where we live and work through our HSE for Youth and community outreach programs. Journey Management Centers Our Journey Management Centers around the world reinforce safe driving behaviors and deliver increased support for drivers during each journey. The centers ensure that every trip is verified for compliance with journey management procedures, and higher-risk driving environments are subject to more stringent controls and standards. Real-time tracking monitors driving behavior and provides immediate feedback to drivers. By using data analytics to define, measure, and shape driving behaviors, the centers develop initiatives that help drivers continuously improve their performance. These centers serve every country in which we operate with real-time journey tracking in 15 languages, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. New Technology to Improve Driving Safety The most recent addition to Schlumberger HSE applications is a driving app that utilizes the sensors in the driver’s mobile device to enable the recognition of vehicle movement. Drivers are provided with a personalized dashboard and immediate feedback on their driving performance. This app is easy to deploy, promoting driver engagement with immediate in-vehicle feedback to increase personal awareness of driving performance and correct hazardous behaviors. The app has been deployed for use by both employees and contractors. Another technology that has been implemented to improve driving performance is advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS). This electronic system aids drivers by enhancing vehicle safety systems and reducing human error by alerting the driver to potential problems such as maximum speed limits, lane departure, and the proximity of pedestrians, inanimate objects, and other vehicles to avoid collisions. Schlumberger Safe Forums The Schlumberger Safe Forum is a resource tool launched in 2018 to introduce supervisors and managers to the latest HSE programs through a set of interactive exhibits that can be easily assembled at any Schlumberger location. The forum was built around the four Schlumberger Safe Pillars: HSE Leadership, Employee Engagement, Training and Reporting, and Compliance. In 2018, more than 30 Schlumberger Safe Forums were organized to assist supervisors and managers in increasing HSE awareness and engagement at local facilities around the globe. Housekeeping Campaign In 2018, Schlumberger launched a safety campaign focused on improving housekeeping. Housekeeping was selected as the first safety campaign of the year because of the direct relationship between housekeeping and safety performance. Keeping workplaces clean and clear of clutter helps to reduce the risk of trips and falls, demonstrates proper behaviors, and helps maintain a safety-oriented mindset. The campaign consisted of local safety meetings to discuss the importance of housekeeping, local housekeeping initiatives, and a global housekeeping video contest. Schlumberger Empowerment Teams A Schlumberger Empowerment Team (SET) is an action-oriented team designed to assist managers in improving the HSE performance of their location. Created in 2018, the SET program brings together employees, line managers, and HSE professionals in a cooperative effort to strengthen HSE engagement of personnel and improve HSE performance. Each SET is made up of 6 to 15 members, depending on the number of personnel at the location, and comprises three groups: engagement, situational insight, and compliance. In 2018, more than 4,000 Schlumberger employees were members of a SET. HSE Leadership Training In 2018, we revised our HSE Leadership Training for line managers, conducting more than 60 training sessions attended by over 760 participants. This training provides leaders with the HSE tools and leadership skills they need to promote workforce HSE engagement. Additionally, approximately 3,000 operational employees completed New Employee Safety Training. Our risk-based driving and journey management approach provides effective management of driving activities in all the countries we operate. Performance Data Schlumberger captures HSE performance data through an online business system that consolidates all HSE information. Accessible by all employees, this system enables them to monitor reported HSE events, incidents, and observations. We use lagging indicator incident data to benchmark our performance against industry data sources. The system facilitates the investigation process and management of remedial work plans and actions to prevent recurrence. Comprehensive investigations are conducted for incidents and high-potential events to identify learning opportunities, and lessons learned are incorporated into improvements of our facilities, equipment, processes, training, and systems. To ensure continuous improvement, Schlumberger personnel are actively encouraged to report hazardous situations and near misses in reports known as Risk Identification Reports and Observation/ Intervention Reports. Our HSE reporting also benefits from an HSE Reporting app that enables employees to create a report and submit it to our global system in less than three minutes using their mobile device. In 2018, our workforce input an average of 40 HSE reports per person into the global HSE system. We use this data to monitor trends and identify areas of concern. Schlumberger employees can also use the system to suggest improvements, post recognitions, track HSE training, and analyze HSE data. The system can be used to assign job-specific HSE training and facilitate and track the testing and certification of computer-based training material. In 2018, Schlumberger launched several global HSE-related campaigns focused on sharing HSE best practices, influencing others to adopt best practices, keeping workplaces safe, and monitoring driving behaviors and performance both on and off-duty. Our overall health and safety performance has shown steady progress. There was an increase in our workforce Total Recordable Injury Rate and Lost-Time Incident Rate in 2018, primarily due to an influx of low-seniority personnel in labor-intensive and rapidly growing markets in North America. However, excluding North America, our Total Recordable Injury Rate was the lowest on record in the fourth quarter of 2018. We have reinforced our commitment to injury prevention throughout the entire organization, including short-service personnel. Our automotive accident rate remained steady compared with 2017 despite an increase in logistics-intensive operational activity in North America. The International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) annually reports upstream oil and gas work-related safety performance statistics. Schlumberger uses the IOGP definitions and reporting criteria to classify HSE data. The data include injuries sustained by Company employees and contractors engaged in work-related activities. PwC auditors reviewed our processes and procedures for 2018 and verified this year’s selected subset of our data. Health and safety data audited included the number of fatalities, employee and contractor lost-time injuries and illnesses, and the associated workhours to determine frequencies and rates. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are, in all material respects, fairly presented and in accordance with Schlumberger procedural guidelines. Schlumberger captures HSE performance data through an online business system that consolidates all HSE information. To ensure continuous improvement, Schlumberger per.sonnel are actively encouraged to report haz.ardous situations and near misses in reports known as Risk Identification Reports and Observation/Intervention Reports. Employees can also use the system to suggest improve.ments, post recognitions, track HSE training, and analyze HSE data. Note: 2016 data includes the Cameron Group from April through December. Fatal Accident Rate* (per 100 million work hours) 1.87 0.86 0.79 2016 2017 2018 Total Recordable Injury Frequency* (per million work hours) 1.46 1.26 1.29 2016 2017 2018 Combined Lost-Time Injury and Illness Frequency* (CLTIF) (per million work hours) 1.09 0.92 0.91 2016 2017 2018 Automotive Accident Rate* (per million miles) 0.34 0.33 0.25 2016 2017 2018 Employee Lost-Time Injury Frequency (per million work hours) 0.71 0.49 0.49 2016 2017 2018 Contractor Lost-Time Injury Frequency (per million work hours) 0.57 0.56 0.42 2016 2017 2018 Fatalities by Year (employees) 511 2016 2017 2018 Fatalities by Year (contractors) 122 2016 2017 2018 *Employees and contractors 