Employment and Human CapitalAt Schlumberger, we believe that the creativity, energy, and expertise of our people establish the foundation upon which we build our sustainable success. Therefore, our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain outstanding employees is essential to the long-term future of our business.We have established diversity as the cornerstone of our recruitment efforts and adhere to the principles of recruiting employees wherever we work. Today Schlumberger employs people in more than 85 countries representing more than 140 nationalities. We offer competitive packages, inspire through effective leadership, and manage on the basis of clear objectives and respect for individuals. We encourage employees to learn continuously, and we promote from within. Because our philosophy is that employees perform best when they are challenged and learning, we have no rigid career paths; in certain types of professional jobs, for example, employees are transferred to new roles or new locations every 2 to 3 years.University RelationsSchlumberger’s University Relations program, established in 2011, helps develop future petrotechnical leaders and seeks to positively influence novel sciences and energy technology worldwide. The Schlumberger University Relations goals include..attracting top-quality, talented university graduates across multiple fields of study..advancing sciences, engineering, manufacturing, and technology by engaging with leading academic institutions in education and research..promoting entrepreneurship among talented students and faculty members..directly supporting technology transfer from leading universities..promoting corporate, social, and environmental responsibility through effective
partnerships with universities..becoming change agents in communities by directly supporting STEM
education programs.This system uses a bench-top system and methods developed through multiyear
collaborative projects that make it possible to acquire images in only 20 minutes from rock core-plug samples flooded with brine. Through this collaboration, we found that techniques developed for the oilfield also can enhance medical scan interpretation
in hospitals. Key University Programs In 2014, Schlumberger participated in more than 200 collaborations with more than 100 universities around the world. These projects, many of which are ongoing, are directly relevant to the top technical challenges facing the oil and gas sector:..technologies for deepwater operations, including the development of subsea engineering education programs..footprint reduction in operations to extract unconventional resources..materials and chemistries for extreme operating environments..technologies to improve the accuracy of surface and subsurface measurements..high-performance computing and big-data analytics.Education ProgramSchlumberger’s education program aims to build a pipeline of STEM talent. The program includes many diverse components.We offer corporate grants directly to several leading institutions. For example, in 2014, we gave $1 million to the Norwegian University of Science and Technology to help develop programs in computational geosciences, subsea engineering, and integrated operations.Through Schlumberger software donations to 580 universities, colleges, and high schools in 70 countries, we have directly supported the education of thousands of students and the work of hundreds of professors and research scientists in the earth sciences, petroleum-related engineering disciplines, and software development.In addition to software donations, Schlumberger has donated computer equipment to
institutions in underprivileged communities to help foster creativity and innovation among students. We donated to a bioassay lab to support basic environmental education among students in target countries with emerging energy economies. The first pilot of such a lab is being developed in sub-Saharan Africa.We support universities by supplying visiting professors and lecturers. Schlumberger has several endowed chairs (at least 10 in 2014 in the United States, United Kingdom, Egypt, and Russia), as well as visiting professors in Malaysia, the Netherlands, and the United States.In 2014, Schlumberger sponsored multiple student organizations around the world through either direct financial aid or tools and training. We hosted competitions such as the Schlumberger Ocean Academic Competition to develop software competencies among select top university and high school students. We also supported competitions organized by professional societies such as the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) Imperial Barrel Award and Society of Exploration Geologists (SEG) Geosciences Without Borders grants. In 2014, we hosted approximately 900 interns from more than 100 universities in more than 80 countries in field operations, applied research, engineering, manufacturing, busi.ness, sales, finance, legal, and human resources.Research and InnovationSchlumberger’s research and innovation program works with principal investigators
at universities where science and technology studies are transformative, such as proj.ects that directly contribute to lessening the impact of oil and gas operations on
the environment. In 2014, Schlumberger sponsored research in approximately 50 universities in the United States, Canada, Brazil, United Kingdom, France, Norway, Germany, Italy, Czech Republic, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Australia.We invested in sustainable solutions such as nanocrystalline cellulose and WiTricity® technology, which provides wireless power in operational environments.Technology Watch, a component of Schlumberger’s University Relations Program since 2013, identifies opportunities for commercializing game-changing technology and con- nects the most promising university teams with Schlumberger Corporate Ventures and our Early Stage Technology investment group. Technologies being watched include drilling and treatment fluids that reduce our industry’s environmental footprint, advanced materials and chemistry for extreme environments, nanotechnology, robotics, mecha.tronics, automation, autonomous vehicles, power management and battery technology, and data analytics.Schlumberger is one of four founding companies that since 2002 have collectively committed more than $188 million to the Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP) at Stanford University in collaboration with 40 institutions worldwide. GCEP seeks ways to supply energy to meet the changing needs of the growing world population in ways that protect the environment. The project develops and manages a portfolio of innovative energy research programs to develop technologies that are efficient, environmentally benign, and cost-effective when deployed on a large scale. Furthermore, we are a member of the Advanced Energy Consortium, which is a col.laboration of more than 25 institutions that is led by the Bureau of Economic Geology at The University of Texas at Austin. The consortium’s primary goal is to develop intelligent subsurface micro- and nanosensors that can be injected into oil and gas reservoirs to help characterize the space in three dimensions and improve the recovery of existing and new hydrocarbon resources. We belong to the Gulf Coast Carbon Center consortium at The University of Texas at Austin. The center hosts a website about CO2 sequestration. Maintained by scientists and engineers, the website provides information on all aspects of carbon capture and sequestration. We donate commercial software to many universities funded by various governmental and other agencies to conduct CO2 sequestration research.We are members of the NorTex Alliance of Petroleum Universities, which includes lead.ing universities in Texas and Norway that are conducting applied research on carbon storage and reuse in operations to improve hydrocarbon recovery.RecruitingSchlumberger’s commitment to a quality workforce begins with the way we recruit, train, and develop the best college and university graduates.  We recruit year-round from a global pool of universities and technical institutes. The Company’s success depends on recruiting those whose expectations and ambitions best fit our diverse busi.ness environment and culture.Competitive EmploymentOffering competitive employment packages is one of the guiding principles for Schlumberger Human Resources. We continually re-evaluate and adjust compensation so that it is competitive with local and global markets. 2014 Recruiting StatisticsTraining and DevelopmentSchlumberger’s investment in employee training and development is among the largest in oilfield services companies. High-quality training and development are fundamental to our employees’ success and to the success of our business. Our ability to adapt to new business challenges is strongly linked to the ability of employees to develop their competencies. At Schlumberger, training and development are continuous processes and occur throughout a person’s career. They provide valuable lessons to support employees’ continued employability and help them manage the end of their career and their retirement. Even those employees who start their careers at Schlumberger and eventually find careers outside of the Company will rely on the basic education that they received at Schlumberger.Our training, which has won many awards over the years, is carried out worldwide and across all sectors.  We view our training of people who leave Schlumberger as a key contribution to developing local competencies.Annual Investment in Training and DevelopmentOperations Engineers, Petrotechnical Experts, and Specialists$10,945165 hoursAverage
amount spentAverage
timeTraining for these positions is performed in 18 dedicated training centers around the world. In 2014, these centers hosted 475,000 training days.Schlumberger provides training and development programs and systems that help build and manage employees’ competencies and support career development. Training is delivered through instructor-led, classroom-based instruction, live simulations at learn.ing centers, self-paced learning using the latest interactive technologies, and on-the-job training. Development opportunities include coaching, mentoring, and cross-training through career mobility to expose employees to new roles, geographies, business seg.ments, and functions.All employees prepare annual training and development plans with their managers and agree on specific actions for the year. Our goals are to foster partnerships between employees and Schlumberger and to create value for employees by enabling them to keep their skills current and to develop their talents to their full potential. We also place particular importance on internships for students and ensure that our interns receive 
valuable training.Global Network of Learning CentersA key aspect of our training is our global network of learning centers. Year-round
courses offered in these centers range from classes of several days to 12-week
sessions and multiyear courses. For example, new oilfield trainees follow a fixed-step
training program that lasts 3 years. The program blends technical, safety, personal
development, business, and managerial courses, as well as on-the-job validated training. HSE TrainingAn online application used at Schlumberger collects quality, health, safety, and envi.ronmental (HSE) information. All employees have access to the system and use it for functions such as managing and recording HSE training. Employees are assigned online quizzes throughout their careers, based on their roles and responsibilities. Training is adapted to local conditions and individual job assignments and can be certified.NExT Oil and Gas Training and Competency DevelopmentNExT instructs more than 10,000 technical experts across the energy sector each year in 11 core disciplines, from reservoir characterization and exploration through develop.ment and production, as well as in industry-leading, proprietary software applications, including the Petrel* E&P software platform.Designed for working professionals seeking practical technical expertise and career development, NExT offers more than 420 courses in industry-spanning domains that
include petrophysics, geomechanics, geology and geophysics, unconventional reser.voirs, surface facilities, reservoir engineering, management and economics, and
production and drilling technologies. DevelopmentOur promote-from-within philosophy, based on merit, means that 100% of our employees have access to “borderless careers.” Experience has shown that approximately 70% of employee development comes through new job experiences, 20% through training, and 10% through internal and professional coaching. For certain positions, our goal is to transfer employees to new roles every 24 to 36 months. However, Schlumberger has no rigid, linear career paths. Our philosophy is that employees perform best and are most engaged when they are challenged and learning. DiversitySchlumberger is committed to attracting top performers worldwide from the full depth of the global talent pool. By creating a company with a broad range of perspectives—experience, education, geography, nationality, culture, gender, and age—we promote fresh outlooks and stimulate creativity and innovation, helping us maintain our competi.tive edge. Moreover, our diverse workforce is better able to understand, respond to, and deliver services that meet the unique expectations and requirements of our increasingly global and diverse stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, and shareholders. National and Cultural DiversitySchlumberger recruits and develops people from the countries in which we work, pro.portionally to the business perspectives and revenue. This diversity now runs through every layer of the Company, including top management. Making diversity a business priority has given us access to the best people, no matter where they were born, and the result is a broad melting pot of talent and a unique corporate culture that is global in outlook yet local in practice. We work in more than 85 countries—many of these for more than 70 years—and employ people from more than 140 nationalities.  Management DiversityWe have been extremely successful in attracting and developing employees from
non-Western nationalities and emerging countries who are now integrated into all levels of the workforce, including senior management. Our Board of Directors reflects the
diversity of the Company as a whole. Three of our 10 directors are women. Four are citizens of the United States, two are citizens of Norway, and one each is a citizen of Canada, France, Russia, and Saudi Arabia.Age DiversityAs oil and gas companies lose the experience and expertise of senior professionals leaving the industry through retirement—”the great crew change”—it is important to capture their knowledge and pass it on. Schlumberger is dedicated to hiring, training, and retaining younger professionals to take on the leadership roles being vacated. We also benefit from the fresh perspectives of these younger employees and from their newer educational experiences and worldview paradigms.Locally Hired WorkersWe hire workers in-country whenever possible. By doing so, we are able to expand
our global footprint in a competitive marketplace and establish a hospitable and recep.tive environment for our businesses in foreign markets. Foreign nationals in their home environments better understand the challenges of doing business locally and often
are better able to manage local practices for import and export, regulatory control, environmental challenges, and business needs. This hiring practice gives Schlumberger credibility that would not be accorded an expatriate; it fosters our acceptance by
local communities; and it helps those economies expand their business opportunities. The cultural affinity that diversity has achieved with our customers is a major competi.tive advantage.Knowledge ManagementKnowledge has been a cornerstone of the success of Schlumberger since its founding, and we have developed a strong culture of knowledge sharing, evident in how much our employees request and provide help to each other on a daily basis. We have seen that a workforce supported by knowledge management is essential to our results. Our strategy connects and motivates people to collaborate, learn, and share expertise, best practices, and insights. Each of our employees has a curriculum vitae, allowing each to meet others virtually to find knowledge and expertise. These curriculum vitae are accessed over 11 million times annually. Employees have viewed 1.5 million pieces of vetted information in the corporate knowledge base, and they have accessed more than 26,000 entries in our internal encyclopedia—including 2,800 abbreviations—more than 20 million times since its inception.Knowledge Sharing at SchlumbergerAround the World—2014Revenue
ContributionNationality
MixGender DiversityHiring the best technical talent means that our policies and management style must wel.come gender diversity. Our goal is to continually increase the percentage of women we recruit worldwide, ensure proper career development, and increase our organizational flexibility to accommodate a wider range of personal situations, including dual-career families. Companies that adapt their management and policies to some of the specific needs of women not only gain a competitive edge but also become role models for local and international employers.According to the Hays Oil and Gas Global Salary Guide, in 2012 only 7.8% of the work.force was female. At Schlumberger we continue to improve our statistics on female
employees, due in large part to our many STEM initiatives involving women. We are proud that women make up 15.8% of the Schlumberger workforce—double that of the industry worldwide—and we are working to increase this percentage.Schlumberger promotes leadership among our women employees. For example, we carry out satisfaction surveys within specific product lines and geographical entities on specific issues. One example is career satisfaction, measured through surveys for the women who have attended Schlumberger’s Women’s Leadership Workshops presented in Houston, Rio de Janeiro, Paris, Moscow, Kuala Lumpur, and Dubai. Results showed that 90% of the women stated that their careers were on track or better than expected.Stilettos to Steel ToesSchlumberger’s Stilettos to Steel Toes initiative, established in 2009 in partnership with the Society of Women Engineers, challenges women engineering majors to set aside any preconceived notions they have about the oil and gas industry and instead consider a nontraditional career. Schlumberger women engineers visit college campuses and tell their career stories to students who, in turn, are invited to submit essays about their career plans. The winners are offered student internships at Schlumberger campuses.2014 Gender Diversity in SchlumbergerFemales in junior management positions (% of total junior management positions)	19.4%Females in management positions (% of total management workforce)		17.5%Females in top management positions, i.e., a maximum of two levels away
from CEO or comparable position (% of total top management positions)		10.9%†Stilettos to Steel Toes 2014 AccomplishmentsFemale
Share of
Workforce †Source: Hays 2012 Oil and Gas   Global Salary GuideWISE Women Networking with ColleaguesWomen in Schlumberger Everywhere (WISE) consists of local networks of women engineers and managers who regularly meet to exchange ideas and propose concrete actions to facilitate integration and progression within Schlumberger. The organization provides a monthly forum for face-to-face networking and is meant to spur continuous personal and professional development for excellence and workforce retention.Local Initiatives and Global ImpactWe believe that all sustainability is local. Our activities in more than 85 countries exemplify the best of local initiatives
with global impact.Our involvement in a variety of programs worldwide addresses important issues at the local level. Many were suggested and are coordinated
by employees who volunteer their time and expertise to assist others. As a corporation, we support these employees wholeheartedly in their
stewardship efforts.Supporting Communities Through Geophysical ResourcesIn 2004, when an earthquake struck off the coast of Sumatra, triggering a devastating tsunami, Schlumberger partnered with the Society of Exploration Geophysicists (SEG) Foundation to establish Geoscientists Without Borders (GWB). This program provides geophysical resources and expertise to communities in need. The SEG Foundation launched the program in early 2008 with a $1 million founding grant from Schlumberger. Since then, individuals and corporations around the world have contributed to the expansion of the program. GWB supports projects worldwide to help geoscientists apply their specialized knowledge and technical skills to help mitigate natural disasters in some of the world’s neediest communities.Each project pairs geoscience students with experienced geoscientists, demonstrating to the students how geoscience and its technologies can aid humanitarian effort, even as it offers real-world experience to the future geophysical workforce. To date, the GWB program has awarded more than 21 projects in 17 countries. The initiative was honored in 2014 by World Oil as Best Outreach Program. Houston Astros Program Supplies Ball Fields for ChildrenSchlumberger is a member of the Houston Astros Community Leaders Program, which supplies newly renovated baseball and softball fields to Houston-area children over a 5-year period. The program has renovated 18 fields in 7 parks with additional refurbish.ments underway. The program also includes year-round field maintenance and currently serves more than 1,200 Houston-area children.Fostering the Entrepreneurial Spirit in StudentsDuring the past 2 decades, Schlumberger has contributed both time and volunteers
to help Junior Achievement of Southeast Texas reach its goal of assisting 300,000 local
students in grades K through 12. With volunteers participating in approximately
750 classes and events such as golf tournaments, sporting-clays events, and
bowl-a-thons, our efforts touched all aspects of Junior Achievement’s operations and training programs. We are proud to support this valuable effort that focuses on develop.ing the entrepreneurial spirit and financial responsibility of today’s youth.Supporting the Angolan WorkforceSchlumberger Angola is working to accelerate the nationalization of the Angolan work.force and to recruit and retain more local talent. Schlumberger Angola is keeping track of its progress in recruiting, motivating, training, and retaining local employees through its Angolan High Exposure and Accelerated Development (AHEAD) program. The goals of the AHEAD program are to increase and manage the Angolan pool of tal.ent; to implement local mentoring, coaching, and training; and to enable the Angolans involved to learn new skills. Within the AHEAD program, Schlumberger developed the first Angola Pumping School in Portuguese, providing hands-on training to equipment operators, field specialists, and young supervisors. Recent courses have emphasized practice, high-quality work, and process-oriented services. The development of a strong pipeline of skilled Angolans promises to be very beneficial to Schlumberger as well.Fundraising to Support Medical ResearchSchlumberger employees, retirees, and family members participate in numerous health walks each year to help educate and inspire employees about fitness and health
awareness. While participating in these walks, we raise funds for numerous health organizations, including the American Heart Association, Heart and Stroke Walk, Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure, Breast Cancer Walkathon, Run For A Cure Africa, the
American Cancer Society: Relay For Life, and the March of Dimes.For example, each year we participate in Houston’s Heart and Stroke Walk to honor the memory of more than 150 Schlumberger employees who have died from cardiovascular-related events in the past 10 years. In 2014, we surpassed our employee participation goal of 400, with 498 team members. Moreover, because of the generosity of employees, their families, and their friends, we exceeded our fundraising goal of $300,000 and raised $307,211. The money helps fund research and other programs to further the understanding of heart disease and stroke. This year Schlumberger was the top fundraiser for the event and was named Top
Corporate Sponsor.Cycling to Support Multiple Sclerosis (MS) ResearchThrough the Schlumberger Cycling Club, employees and their family members and friends can participate in year-round cycling events. With nearly 250 active members ranging in age from 10 to 70, the group’s focus is riding in the annual BP MS 150 event from Houston to Austin and raising money to fight multiple sclerosis. Organized by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, the BP MS 150 is a 2-day fundraising bike ride and the largest fundraising bike event in the world. In 2014, cyclists from the Schlumberger Cycling Club participated in the Houston-to-Austin ride and raised almost $200,000 to fight MS.Track RecordSchlumberger’s successes in governance, ethics, environ.mentally responsible technologies, and social and community engagement are evaluated against internationally recognized standards and guidelines.2014 Awards and RecognitionSchlumberger is regularly recognized by a variety of organizations for our sustainability initiatives.Many of our awards are for our educational programs, which concentrate on STEM. These subjects underpin not only our business but also economic growth in every country around the globe. We focus mostly on school-age children and women. Educational advancement in both groups makes a pow.erful contribution to developing economies, as well as to the individuals themselves. We are also widely respected for our technological advances that help our customers produce oil and gas more efficiently. These efficiencies create sustainability benefits—such as capacity building, economic develop.ment, and social investment—while conserving natural resources and minimizing our customers’ environmental footprint.CFI.co Best Sustainability Award 2014Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED), NigeriaOur SEED initiative in Nigeria was recognized for the second consecutive year for its sustained commitment to STEM education. SEED has collaborated with more than
34 schools and the Nigerian Academy of Science to promote science education. CFI.co is an online resource and print journal that provides news, analysis, and commentary on the global markets and addresses economic, political, and business factors affecting these markets.CNNMoney | World’s Top Employers for New Grads (Engineering)SchlumbergerFor the exclusive CNNMoney list, research firm Universum Global surveyed college students around the world to see where they most wanted to work. Since 2012,
students have ranked Schlumberger among the most desirable employers to work for in the world.Universum Global surveys students and professionals and provides ideal-employer research, full-service communication, and strategic consulting services to more than 1,200 clients globally.Getenergy 2014 Award: Education and Training Provider of the YearNExT Oil and Gas Training, SchlumbergerFor the second year in a row, the NExT Oil and Gas Training and Competency Develop.ment program was recognized for consistently developing and delivering industry-
leading programs. NExT offers more than 420 courses each year to more than 10,000 working professionals seeking practical technical expertise and career development.Getenergy, a global education and training organization for the energy industry, focuses on designing and operating events that link education provision and the oil and gas industry.PwC, AGR, and AGCAS | The National Undergraduate Employability Awards: Best Short-term Insight SchemeWomen and Technology Insight Programme, SchlumbergerThis program aims to increase the number of women in STEM careers. In 2014, first- 
and second-year female scientists and engineers were invited to spend 2 days at
Schlumberger’s Stonehouse Technology Centre in the United Kingdom and participate in job shadowing, a technical team challenge, and mentoring beyond the event. Of the attendees, 67% were offered a summer internship or placement, reflecting our commit.ment to STEM programs.This award is sponsored by PwC, along with AGR, a global upstream engineering service company, and the Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Services (AGCAS).Teleos and The KNOW Network | 2014 Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises (MAKE) AwardSchlumbergerFor the ninth time, the 2014 Global MAKE study recognized Schlumberger for our enterprise-wide knowledge-driven culture and an environment conducive to collaborative enterprise knowledge sharing. The award recognizes organizations that outperform their peers in creating shareholder and stakeholder wealth by transforming tacit and explicit enterprise knowledge and intellectual capital into superior products, services,
or solutions. Teleos is an independent research company in knowledge management and intellectual capital areas. The KNOW Network is a global Web-based profes.sional knowledge sharing and collaboration network. ONS 2014 Innovation AwardGeoSphere* reservoir mapping-while-drilling serviceThe GeoSphere service uses deep, directional electromagnetic measurements to reveal subsurface bedding and fluid-contact details. It was recognized for lowering the risks of horizontal drilling, enabling more accurate placement of producers, reducing the num.ber of wells needed to drain the reservoir, minimizing the environmental footprint, and removing the pilot holes from the rig program, saving time and costs.The ONS Foundation, established by Stavanger City Council, Statoil, Stavanger Forum, and the Norwegian Petroleum Society, is an international forum for energy professionals to discuss technology issues, including innovation, energy efficiency, and technology development.
Oil Council 2014 Awards | Oilfield Services Company of the Year
Schlumberger
Schlumberger was selected from among the three companies nominated as the 2014 Oilfield
Services Company of the Year.The Oil and Gas Council is a network of oil and gas executives who connect energy executives and their companies to each other and to their partners in the finance and investment worlds.ADIPEC 2014 Excellence in Energy Awards | Best Oil and Gas HSE Project or InitiativeRegional Journey ManagementSchlumberger’s journey management program was recognized for its contribution to the overall improvement of the Middle East and North Africa energy industry through a transformation in HSE standards that foster an open safety culture.ADIPEC 2014 Excellence in Energy Awards | Best Oil and Gas Innovation
and TechnologyGeoSphere reservoir mapping-while-drilling serviceThe GeoSphere service was recognized as “an offshore or onshore project, product, or service that offers a new concept in terms of cost and economics, HSE, schedule, or quality in the Middle East and North Africa.” It uses deep, directional electromagnetic measurements to reveal subsurface-bedding and fluid-contact details more than
100 feet from the wellbore, enabling operators to optimize landing, maximize reservoir exposure, and refine field development plans.The Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition & Conference (ADIPEC) is an annual 4-day conference that attracts 85,000 attendees, creating a platform for petroleum professionals worldwide to support innovation within the industry.2014 World Oil AwardsBest Drilling TechnologyONYX 360 rolling PDC cutter, Smith Bits, a Schlumberger companyThe ONYX 360* rolling PDC cutter increases polycrystalline diamond compact bit
durability by revolving 360°. Positioned in the highest wear areas of the cutting structure, the ONYX 360 rolling PDC cutter’s entire diamond edge is used to drill the formation. The cutter’s rotating action allows the cutter’s diamond edge to stay sharper longer.Best Exploration TechnologyCoreFlow digital rock and fluid analytics services, SchlumbergerCoreFlow* digital rock and fluid analytics services integrate physical and digital rock and fluid analyses, creating a 3D reservoir model that rapidly simulates flow perfor.mance under multiple production scenarios.New Horizons IdeaMETOC Wave Glider autonomous marine vehicle, Liquid Robotics Oil and Gas, a joint venture with SchlumbergerThe remotely controlled ocean-going METOC Wave Glider‡  vehicle is equipped with sensors that gather data necessary to conduct detailed meteorological and oceano.graphic surveys across the ocean. It can capture and transmit real-time data remotely from a fixed position or while circling a rig at a preset distance to provide early warning of security and environmental threats. (Photo at left.) World Oil, a monthly publication of Gulf Publishing Company, provides global coverage of the latest information and technological advances in oil and gas exploration, drilling, completions, and production.Offshore Technology Conference 2014 Spotlight on New Technology AwardsFLAG fluid loss and gain detection service, Geoservices, a Schlumberger companyThe FLAG* service is an early warning system that is highly sensitive to fluctuations in deep water drilling yet intelligent enough to help prevent false alarms.Seismic Guided Drilling Service, SchlumbergerSeismic Guided Drilling* Service predicts formation pressures hundreds of meters ahead of the bit while drilling. The service uses both surface seismic and logging-while-drilling data to provide a 3D look-ahead velocity model with reduced uncertainty.IsoMetrix marine isometric seismic technology, WesternGeco,
a Schlumberger companyIsoMetrix* marine isometric seismic technology enables the first truly 3D measurement of seismic wavefields using towed streamers.The Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) is the world’s largest trade show for offshore resources in drilling, exploration, production, and environmental protection. OTC is sponsored by 13 industry organizations and societies.Hart Energy’s E&P 2014 Special Meritorious Awards for Engineering InnovationHart Energy’s E&P 2014 Meritorious Awards recognized technologies and new products that demonstrate outstanding innovation and technological advancement in concept, design, and application. Schlumberger was awarded for eight technologies in
six categories.MicroScope HD high-definition imaging-while-drilling service (Drilling Operations)The MicroScope HD* service provides 360° electrical images and laterolog resistivity measurements in conductive mud environments.ONYX 360 rolling PDC cutter (Drilling Operations), Smith Bits,
a Schlumberger companyThe cutter increases PDC bit durability by revolving 360°. Positioned in the highest wear areas of the cutting structure, the cutter’s entire diamond edge is used to drill the formation. (Photo below.)Moment tensor inversion services (Completions)These services provide new information about the mechanism of the fracture plane failure to aid in understanding the fracturing process, bringing critical insight to geologic and reservoir modeling, and production simulation.ELEMENTAL degradable technology (Completions)ELEMENTAL* degradable technology—used with multistage stimulation system frac balls—provides material that degrades completely within hours or days, eliminating the risk of stuck frac balls and the need to mill them. (Photo at right.)PIPESIM steady-state multiphase flow simulator (Production Operations)The PIPESIM* simulator is a steady-state, multiphase flow simulator for the design and diagnostic analysis of oil and gas production systems. InSitu Viscosity sensor (Field Development)The InSitu Viscosity* reservoir fluid viscosity sensor, integrated in the InSitu Fluid Analyzer* real-time downhole fluid analysis system, measures downhole fluid viscosity under flowing conditions by measuring the decrement (oscillation decay) of a mass-spring oscillation system in a magnetic field. METOC Wave Glider (Systems Integration), Liquid Robotics Oil and Gas, a joint venture with SchlumbergerThe METOC Wave Glider is an autonomous marine vehicle integrated with sensors that gather meteorological and oceanographic data across vast expanses of the ocean.CoilScan engineered pipe management service (HSE)The CoilScan* service is a CT pipe inspection system that uses magnetic flux leakage sensors, eddy current probes, and depth encoders to provide early detection of pipe defects such as corrosion, pitting, and excess internal metal.Hart Energy is an energy industry publisher and a leader in providing original and timely data through its numerous products and services.