Social and Economic Impact Schlumberger has product sales and services in more than 120 countries and employs approximately 100,000 people who represent over 140 nationalities. We believe diversity spurs creativity and collaboration, helping us better understand the needs of our customers. Our employees are committed to working with our customers to create the highest level of added value. At the local level, we help countries build capacity and resilience by providing employment and training for local workers and procuring goods and services locally. We take a long-term interest in the communities where we live and work and strive to create shared value with actions that generate business value while also generating social value. Human Rights Schlumberger has always been committed to conducting business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity. Part of this continued focus is the Company’s Human Rights position statement, which was published in 2018. Schlumberger recognizes the UN Guiding Principles, and these are reflected in the Company’s The Blue Print in Action – Our Code of Conduct, policies, and procedures. Our efforts to support Human Rights includes workers, communities, security provisions, business relationships, and contractors. Workers Schlumberger is committed to the labor principles of the UN Global Compact and ensuring the treatment of all workers is consistent with the International Labor Organization (ILO) Core Labor Standards. In 2018, Schlumberger updated its Working Condition Requirements, which was published in 2005 and provides a common baseline for the expected treatment of all employees, contractors, temporary workers, trainee workers, and foreign contracted workers. One of Schlumberger’s strengths is the diversity of our workforce. Schlumberger does not engage in discrimination based on race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, ethnicity, disability, religion, union membership, or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as promotions, rewards, and access to training. SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit In 2018, an M-I SWACO facility in North America underwent a Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) audit. The audit program is designed to assess working conditions for employees of services providers working at SEDEX member company locations or remotely from their employer’s operations. The audit specifically covers labor standards, health and safety, business ethics, and the environment. The M-I SWACO facility was described as progressive. The sole non-compliance item identified related to fire drills for the night shift, which had not been included in the annual plan, and corrective action was taken.  Equal Opportunity – No Discrimination In 2018, Schlumberger Production Management (SPM) increased local hires by 59% on the Shaya Ecuador project while maintaining a commitment to zero child labor and no discrimination nor bias of any kind. For the project, women comprise nearly 22% of the direct workforce and 4% of workers are people with disabilities. The Shaya project also established a work rotation for people with disabilities, thereby expanding employment opportunities in the Amazonia region. A future goal for SPM Ecuador is to increase diversity such that indigenous peoples account for 4% of the project workforce by the end of 2019.    Communities Recognizing that all direct interface with communities is typically the responsibility of the customer, Schlumberger looks to engage with communities in a manner that respects Human Rights and align roles and responsibilities with our customers for the management of potential project impacts on communities – positive and negative.  Engagement with communities When the SPM project in Sartichala, Georgia was concerned about the impact of noise from a drill site on a nearby community, they partnered with a local NGO to help develop and implement a community engagement plan. The objective was to establish clear communication channels between SPM and the stakeholders who would be impacted by noise. The NGO led community engagement events produced a shared understanding of how noise grievances will be managed and helped stakeholders understand and accept the project. When conducting operations in complex environments and for large footprint projects, we assess the potential social and environmental risks and impacts on communities. Schlumberger has developed two key processes for how potential risks and impacts are identified, assessed, and managed: • Schlumberger Social Risk Assessment: The tool we use to assess complex projects has three phases: planning, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation. Information collected during the planning phase is used to analyze social hazards in terms of risks to people and projects, and to develop appropriate responses. • SPM Social and Environmental Management Standard: For large-footprint projects, the SPM Social and Environmental Management Standard uses the International Finance Corporation (World Bank Group) Environmental and Social Performance Standards as a key point of reference. Managing Potential Impacts In 2018, Schlumberger created a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) team in India to work with our customers to further engage with local communities. The team’s responsibilities include assessing social risks at worksites, identifying community stakeholders, and managing complaints. Furthermore, the CSR team supports the selection process for local vendors and implements strategic social investment projects. Security Provision Schlumberger ensures that security arrangements are appropriate for circumstances, protect people and assets in a manner that respects Human Rights, and are consistent with applicable laws and international standards, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. In 2018, Schlumberger reviewed its training and awareness program for embedded security advisors. The revised program ensures our security advisors are properly trained and assesses their understanding of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. 2005 Developed guidelines related to working conditions and eligibility for supply chain contractors 2009 Established social responsibility process and began conducting social risk assessments for large-footprint projects in sensitive operating environments Business Relationships and Contractors We continue to focus on prohibiting any use or contracting of, directly or indirectly, slavery, human trafficking, child labor, or any form of forced labor. This commitment is outlined in our Human Rights Position Statement and The Blue Print in Action – Our Code of Conduct. We formed a cross-functional working group to review the practical steps we take to address modern slavery in our business and supply chain. Key activities of the working group in 2018 included: • Commissioning a high-level risk assessment of our supply chain to help identify our most important risks • Engaging with members of the Joint Industry Human Rights Supply Chain Engagement initiative, which was developing an industry framework for supplier Human Rights assessments • Updating our business conduct clause and supplier kit to reinforce our commitment against modern slavery  • Preparing project-level modern slavery plans at the request of various customers  2010 Reviewed 400 statements of Company policy, standards, and guidelines against the Business and Human Rights Matrix developed by the Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights Collaborating on Human Rights Issues In 2018, Schlumberger took over the vice chair of the IPIECA Human Rights Working Group. The group’s current focus is to develop guidance and tools to help the oil and gas industry address issues related to labor rights, including modern slavery. 2011 Completed a review of customer and peer human rights statements and policies to improve our understanding of the United Nations’ Protect, Respect, and Remedy framework 2013 Introduced a new Social and Environmental Management Standard that recognizes IFC Performance Standards as a key point of reference for our large-footprint projects 2014  2015  2017  2018  Revised our Security Standard to incorporate references to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights  Developed preliminary alignment of our Global Stewardship program with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals  First oilfield services company to become an associate member of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues  Schlumberger Human Rights Position Statement approved by the board and made public  Supply Chain Schlumberger Supply Chain Services provides our field and manufacturing locations with supply planning, supplier management, strategic sourcing, logistics, and inventory management. Supply chain processes are regularly reviewed to ensure quality in our services and products. Every supplier we select must comply with Schlumberger standards. Acquiring goods and services from local suppliers is a legal and contractual obligation in many countries where we work, but it also helps to maximize our positive impact in the communities where we live and work. We contribute to the social and economic development of these communities by supporting initiatives that improve living conditions, providing business and growth opportunities, developing and fostering long-term relationships, recruiting and training where we work, and buying local services and products. We expect the highest ethical standards of business conduct and compliance with local laws and regulations from our suppliers. By helping local suppliers meet our industry requirements, we seek to promote innovation through the sourcing of new products and services. This helps to develop alternative channels for procuring goods and services and creates new business opportunities in the locations where we operate. In today’s competitive global economy, we know that strong relationships with our suppliers are essential to meeting our own needs, the needs of our customers, and national content. We only procure goods and services from financially stable, technically qualified, and reliable sources. Our preferred suppliers are those who work with us in a professional, ethical, competitive, and cost-effective manner consistent with Schlumberger policies, procedures, and business objectives. When evaluating potential suppliers, Schlumberger considers the total cost of ownership, including criteria such as delivery, price, reliability, operational costs, and after-sales support.  Local Suppliers We invest time and resources to help local suppliers meet our stringent quality and HSE standards. Our investment in safety training, driver training, installation of in-vehicle monitors, and vehicle maintenance standards helps build the competitiveness of local vendors. All our social investments in local suppliers are underpinned by core principles: they must be connected to our business and rooted in the communities where we work; and they must be focused, streamlined, and accountable. Supply Chain Management  Schlumberger maintains a Supplier Management Dashboard that analyzes our spending by supplier, commodity, geography, business segment, legacy company, and trends over time. Before a supplier can be included on our approved supplier list, it is evaluated against our established performance metrics. This analysis includes a tally for total procurement spending. Performance Data Awareness Critical suppliers for which Suppliers accounted for in more than 40% of their revenue spend analysis comes from Schlumberger 42,218 suppliers 195 suppliers Risk Assessment Amount of spend is covered  Suppliers that are  in risk analysis  at high risk  Risk Management  Supplier audits were Audited suppliers with conducted in 2018 documented development plan Critical Suppliers Suppliers are classified as critical if they provide materials, components, or services that may significantly influence one or more aspects of Schlumberger products and service performance. This includes elements such as safety, technology, and competitiveness as well as compliance with operations integrity, HSE, and ethics standards. Comprehensive audits of our critical suppliers are conducted per a defined schedule and may incorporate supplier performance, finance, contract, HSE, Quality, and Ethics and Compliance components, including human rights and labor questions. Suppliers  42,218 Total Suppliers (absolute number)  2,257 Critical Suppliers (absolute number)  32% Critical Suppliers (percentage of total spend)  A Decade of REACH at Schlumberger The Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals regulation (REACH) from the European Union covers the manufacture, import, placement, and use of chemical substances. In 2018, REACH passed the third and final milestone of chemical registration for substances produced in volumes over 1 tonne. During the last 10 years, Schlumberger has created a robust REACH program to ensure compliance and followed these developments to address customer needs and provide input to authorities. We successfully registered all required substances by the 2018 registration deadline and ensured our relevant suppliers were also in compliance with the new requirements. Our REACH registrations help us maintain our access to the European market and demonstrates our commitment to compliance. Conflict-Free Minerals Schlumberger is committed to purchasing parts and products containing minerals that have been procured through a validated conflict-free supply chain, avoiding the use of minerals that have financed conflict in designated countries, and we expect our suppliers to abide by the same standard. When a validated conflict-free supply chain or a robust mineral-tracing program is established, we expect our direct suppliers to procure minerals using only that validated supply chain. If a direct supplier provides us with minerals that have not been procured through a validated supply chain or that are found to have financed conflict, we will recommend that the supplier seek an alternative means of sourcing to prevent possible termination of our relationship with that supplier. Working Condition Guidelines Our suppliers, contractors, and agents are expected to act in a socially responsible and ethical manner. Suppliers are required to comply with the laws, rules, and regulations of the countries in which they operate. Suppliers shall institute and maintain policies and procedures consistent with the International Labor Organization (ILO) core labor principles and properly conduct due diligence, which is reasonably expected to ensure that there are no instances of slavery or human trafficking in their supply chain. Suppliers must also comply with all relevant anti-slavery and human trafficking laws as outlined in our  Working Conditions Requirements. In addition, our Supply Chain program is part of a cross-functional working group to commission a high-level risk assessment of our supply chain focused on Labor Rights risks. Developing Local Supply Chain Talent The global nature of our business presents several logistical challenges, one of which is difficult geographies. Success in these areas depends on having supply chain professionals capable of dealing with our complex operations. To enable a strong pipeline of people who have these skills, Schlumberger has partnered with top-tier supply chain training programs to assist our team members in geographies where supply chain training is not widely available. Team members are selected to learn and build expertise with the intention of returning to their markets and increasing the level of supply chain performance.  Supply Chain Program for First Australians In 2018, Schlumberger continued to participate in the Supply Chain Program for First Australians, which was designed to improve the capacity of local suppliers. The program supports Indigenous Australian suppliers in the areas of facility management, staffing, marketing, relocation, waste management, customs clearance, freight forwarding, and logistics. The program helps to empower and upskill the local workforce, enabling them to become more self-sustainable over the long term. In 2018, more than 14% of our third-party expenditures in Australia were with majority-owned First Australians and incumbent suppliers with traceable Indigenous engagement. Furthermore, knowledge sharing sessions within the Company ensured alignment throughout the tender process. Our participation in the Supply Chain Program for First Australians brings education, employment, and training opportunities to many local communities in Australia. A multidisciplinary group within Schlumberger that includes operations, sales and commercial, procurement, HR, and legal keeps track of what has been achieved and which focus areas require attention. This helps further develop the Program for First Australians through the Schlumberger REFLECT Reconciliation Action Plan. The REFLECT Plan is an outcome-based roadmap to further strengthen our operations in Australia. During 2018, several REFLECT Plan events were organized, focusing on cultural exchange and awareness as well as developing local supplier capabilities. Stakeholder Engagement To learn about the changing needs and expectations of our stakeholders, we actively listen to stakeholder feedback and align our business processes to conform to local and national priorities. Our stakeholder engagement takes many forms. We meet regularly with investors, join industry initiatives and partnerships, participate in academic forums and, in consultation with our customers, we often participate in local community meetings. Our Stakeholders Customers Continuous engagement with customers enables us to appreciate their needs and expectations around many issues in the oil and gas industry. Our interpretation of this information enables our investment in technologies and solutions to be tailored to market requirements while also remaining aligned with our Global Stewardship priorities. Strategic planning demands that we respond to environmental and other concerns in a manner that leads toward our sustainable existence in the communities where we live and work. Employees Schlumberger employs approximately 100,000 people who represent over 140 nationalities, and we sell products and services in more than 120 countries. We are deeply committed to nationality and gender diversity throughout the Company. Our employees are the most professional women and men in the oil and gas services industry. We consider them to be the most credible ambassadors of Schlumberger, and one of the Company’s most important stakeholder groups.  Communities We strive to make a marked and positive impact wherever we work. The results of our efforts touch our employees, contractors, suppliers, and customers as well as the communities in which we live and work. Schlumberger trucks and equipment are often the most visible aspect of our presence in these communities, and our impact is frequently measured by local populations in increased potholes, dust, and traffic noise. Our direct impact on local economies can also be measured in taxes, customs tariffs, the wages we pay to local workers, the promotion of our strong health and safety culture, and the wide range of initiatives we undertake to build supply chain capacity in communities. In 2018, Schlumberger joined the Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP). PSP is a coalition of leading Permian Basin energy companies who joined together to work in partnership with leaders across the region’s communities to address current and future challenges. Areas of focus include making roads safer, improving education, upgrading healthcare, increasing affordable housing and training the next generation of workers. Universities Schlumberger has a long history of partnering with universities. Our relationships with universities and other academic institutions around the world contribute to developing our products and services and provide a plentiful source of potential employees. These partnerships are part of our Global Stewardship network, which is how we manage our impact on the wider environment and in the communities where we live and work. Suppliers Schlumberger Supply Chain Services pursues relationships with suppliers based on cooperation, trust, reliability, and communication. We procure products and services through manufacturers and suppliers that demonstrate high standards for quality, service, pricing, performance, after-sales support, and supply chain management. The Company continues to examine the feasibility of supplier capacity building programs in several countries. Keeping Investors Informed Schlumberger uses many avenues to engage investors who seek perspective on the Company. • Speeches and conference presentations by senior managers explain strategy and the technical means by which it is carried out • Conference calls after quarterly earnings are released provide context and color about the results while welcoming questions from institutional investors and analysts • Face-to-face meetings at conferences and at Schlumberger and investor offices create the personal contact essential to investors’ understanding of the Company • Tours of Company facilities worldwide— including North America, the Middle East, and Europe—provide investors with first-hand experience of our operations • Company-hosted two-day conferences give investors a broad, multiyear company outlook while providing opportunities for direct contact with dozens of specialized managers • Conference calls engage investors in discussion immediately after announcements of significant events, such as acquisitions • Our Investor Relations website offers complete financial performance data, archived press releases, replays of conference calls, the annual report, and much more • Senior Investor Relations staff responds promptly to market inquiries Reporting on Performance   Schlumberger utilizes the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards established by the Global Reporting Initiative. We also participate with several third-party firms that collect and report on corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance:  • Bloomberg Dashboard: ESG data provided worldwide on the Bloomberg Professional Service • RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment: An evaluation of corporate ESG performance that provides the basis for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index • FTSE Russell: A series of indices measuring the ethical performance of corporations    • Sustainalytics: ESG data provided for benchmarking sustainability performance • CDP: a global disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states, and regions to manage their environmental impacts • EcoVadis: an organization that provides sustainability self-assessments and supplier-assessments for companies to determine the sustainability of their global supply chains • MSCI ESG Rating: provides investors with insight into a company’s ESG risks and opportunities using a tiered rating structure Engaging with Policy Makers We engage with policy-makers in a wide variety of capacities:  • We are sponsors and active participants in the National Academy of Sciences’ Roundtable Project on Unconventional Hydrocarbon Development • We are a founding member of the Global CCS Institute and have participated in numerous international meetings • We are a founding member of the Board of Directors of the UK Carbon Capture and Storage Association  • Through our relationship with the Petroleum Equipment and Services Association, twice a year Schlumberger trains Foreign Service Officers from the US State Department on various aspects of the oil and gas industry, and 2018 marked the 25th anniversary of this initiative • We are a founding member of the OPEC Fund for International Development’s Energy Access Program and continue to engage with the program as its mission and associated projects evolve • We are members of the Bloomberg Sustainable Business International Advisory Board, which has oversight on the topics, guest speakers, and other activities associated with the Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summits around the globe • We are a member of the National Petroleum Council (NPC), which provides advice on energy sourcing and energy security to the US Department of Energy • We are active participants in the NPC Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS) study, requested in 2017 by the US Secretary of Energy to provide analysis on the potential and challenges associated with CCUS technology and infrastructure • We are active participants in the current NPC Arctic Potential study, requested in 2018 by the US Secretary of Energy to reassess the 2015 Arctic Potential study and provide views on how the current regulatory environment could be enhanced • We are a sustaining member and serve on the Board of Directors for the Stanford University Natural Gas Initiative • We are a member of the Stanford University Seismicity Research Program, which is dedicated to expanding our understanding of seismic activity related to oil and gas operations Shareholders and Investors Schlumberger maintains the highest standards of transparency in disclosing information about the Company to investors and thinks it is important to communicate the Company’s values. We believe these efforts help investors fulfill their obligations to make objective financial decisions as well as judgments about environmental and social issues. In 2018, our work to keep investors informed was acknowledged by Institutional Investor when Schlumberger was once again recognized as a Most Honored Company. Governments Government and regulatory officials and other stakeholders seek out Schlumberger domain experts for their knowledge of and experience in many aspects of the oil and gas industry. Although the Company is politically neutral and does not lobby, we routinely help regulatory officials interested in gaining practical understanding of the technologies and processes that can reduce emissions and carbon footprint. Industry Schlumberger manages and coordinates active relationships with numerous industry organizations. Most notably, we are members of the Petroleum Equipment & Services Association, American Geosciences Institute Foundation, American Petroleum Institute, Society of Petroleum Engineers, American Association of Petroleum Geologists, International Association of Oil and Gas Producer, and IPIECA. Schlumberger senior executives serve on the boards and/or advisory committees of these organizations. We hold nonpolitical positions and adhere to a do-not-lobby policy. As a result, these groups frequently call on us for technical advice and guidance. 