Stakeholder Engagement We engage with our stakeholders to learn about their changing expectations and needs. Through actively listening to their feedback, we are better able to align our business processes to conform to local and national priorities. Our stakeholder engagement takes many forms. We meet regularly with investors, we join industry initiatives and partnerships, we participate in academic forums, and in consultation with our customers we often participate in local community meetings. In 2016 we committed significant resources to listening to our employees through Engage to Excel, our new and ongoing employee engagement program. Stakeholder Engagement THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTOur Stakeholders Customers Continuous engagement with customers enables us to appreciate their needs and expectations around many issues in the oil and gas industry. Our interpretation of this information enables our investment in technologies and solutions to be tailored to market requirements while also remaining aligned with our Global Stewardship priorities. Strategic planning demands that we respond to environmental and other concerns in a manner that leads toward our sustainable existence in the communities where we work. Employees We work in more than 85 countries and employ approximately 100,000 people who represent over 140 nationalities. Our commitment to nationality and gender diversity enables us to offer a truly global approach. Our employees are the most professional women and men in the oil and gas services industry, and we consider them to be the most credible ambassadors of Schlumberger and one of our most important stakeholder groups. Communities We strive to make a marked and positive impact wherever we work. The results of our efforts touch our employees, contractors, suppliers and clients, as well as the communities in which we live and work. Schlumberger trucks and equipment are often the most visible aspect of our presence in these communities, and our impact is frequently measured by local populations in increased potholes, dust, and traffic noise. Our direct impact on local economies can also be measured in taxes, customs tariffs, the wages we pay THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTto local workers, the promotion of our strong health and safety culture, and the wide range of initiatives we undertake to build supply chain capacity in communities. Universities Schlumberger has a decades-long history of partnering with universities. Our relationships with approximately 700 universities and other academic institutions around the world contribute to developing our products and services and provide a plentiful source of potential employees. These partnerships are part of our Global Stewardship network, which is how we manage our impact on the wider environment and in the communities where we work. Suppliers Schlumberger Supply Chain Services pursues relationships with suppliers based on cooperation, trust, reliability, and communication. We procure products and services through manufacturers and suppliers that demonstrate high standards for quality, service, pricing, performance, after-sales support, and supply chain management. In addition, we continue to examine the feasibility of supplier capacity-building programs in several countries. Keeping Investors Informed Schlumberger uses many avenues to engage investors who seek perspective on the Company. • Speeches and conference presentations by senior managers explain strategy and the technical means by which it is carried out. • Conference calls after quarterly earnings give context and color to results while welcoming questions from institutional players. • Face-to-face meetings at conferences and in Schlumberger and investor offices create the personal contact essential to investors’ understanding of the Company. • Tours of Company facilities worldwide, including North America, the Middle East, China, Latin America, and Europe give investors direct experience of operations. • Company-hosted two-day conferences give investors a broad, multi-year company outlook while putting them in personal contact with dozens of specialized managers. • Conference calls engage investors in discussion immediately upon announcement of significant events, such as acquisitions. • The Investor Relations website offers complete financial performance data, archived press releases, replays of conference calls, the Annual Report, and much more. • Senior Investor Relations staff is organized to respond promptly to market inquiries. Reporting on Performance   Schlumberger utilizes G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines established by the Global Reporting Initiative. We also participate with a number of third-party firms that collect and report on corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance:  • Bloomberg Dashboard: ESG data provided worldwide on the Bloomberg Professional Service • RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA): An evaluation of corporate ESG performance that provides the basis for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) • FTSE Russell: A series of indices measuring the ethical performance of corporations • Sustainalytics: ESG data provided for benchmarking sustainability performance Stakeholder Engagement THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTEngaging with Policy-Makers We engage with policy-makers in a wide variety of capacities:  • We are sponsors and active participants in the National Academy of Sciences’ Roundtable Project on Unconventional Hydrocarbon Development. • We have served as an industrial sponsor and executive committee member for the International Energy Agency’s Greenhouse Gas Research and Development program (IEA GHG), and as a member of the agency’s technical networks addressing monitoring, risk assessment, wellbore integrity, modeling, and social research. • We were a founding member of the Global CCS Institute (GCCSI) and have participated in numerous international meetings. • We have served as an advisory committee member of the European Technology Platform for Zero Emission Fossil Fuel Power Plants (ZEP) and participated in numerous working groups. • We have participated as a member of the North America Carbon Capture and Storage Association (NACCSA). • We were a founding member of the Board of Directors of the UK Carbon Capture and Storage Association (CCSA). • We are a member of the Board of Directors of the UK Carbon Capture and Storage Research Centre (UK CCS RC). • We have donated numerous times to the University College London Carbon Capture Legal Programme (CCLP). • We have served as project manager, technology supplier, and member of a research consortium of Australia’s CO2 CRC Otway Project, a large research and geosequestration demonstration project. • Schlumberger conducted a six-month pilot study on mapping endangered or sensitive habitats with the US Department of Interior using the Petrel E&P software platform. • Through our relationship with the Petroleum Equipment and Services Association, twice a year Schlumberger trains Foreign Service Officers from the US State Department on various aspects of the oil and gas industry. Shareholders and Investors Schlumberger maintains the highest standards of transparency in disclosing information about the Company to investors. We also think it important to communicate the Company’s values. We believe these efforts help investors fulfill their obligations to make objective financial decisions as well as judgments about environmental and social issues. Governments Government and regulatory officials and other stakeholders seek out Schlumberger domain experts for their knowledge and experience in many aspects of the oil and gas industry. Although the Company is politically neutral and does not lobby, we routinely help regulatory officials interested in gaining practical understanding of the technologies and processes that can reduce emissions and carbon footprint. Industry Schlumberger manages and coordinates active relationships with numerous industry organizations. Most notably, we are members of the Petroleum Equipment and Services Association (PESA), the American Geosciences Institute Foundation (AGIF), the American Petroleum Institute (API), the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG), and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP). Schlumberger senior executives serve on the boards and/or advisory committees of these organizations. Schlumberger was the first Associate Member of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. We hold nonpolitical positions and adhere to a do-not-lobby policy. As a result, these groups frequently call on us for technical advice and guidance. Employment and Human Capital One of our greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce, with men and women of many nationalities and backgrounds working together and sharing common objectives. Our long-standing commitment to national, cultural, and gender diversity fosters a corporate culture that is global in outlook yet local in practice. We attract top performers from the countries where we work, and this broad range of perspectives enables us to better understand national issues, respond to local concerns, and deliver services that meet the expectations and requirements of our stakeholders and customers. Research and Innovation THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTResearch and Innovation Through our global network of R&E centers, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, reduce exploration and production costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve recovery, and increase asset value while also accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner. Despite a revenue decrease of 22% due to continued weakness in exploration and production spending, in 2016 we invested more than a billion dollars in R&E programs to develop and advance our technologies. Since 2008, our Early Stage Technology Corporate Venture group has supported external innovation by co-investing and codeveloping promising technologies with start-up companies in a broad range of disciplines, including technologies such as nanocrystalline cellulose, wireless power, high-pressure mass spectrometry, robotics, automation and control, and cybersecurity, all of which are being actively pursued. More recently, we have also invested in technologies around waste heat recovery and decarbonization, emissions monitoring and control, and renewable energy. Technology Watch, a component of our University Relations program, identifies opportunities for commercializing game-changing technology and connects the most promising university teams with the Schlumberger Corporate Ventures group. Technologies currently being watched include drilling and treatment fluids that reduce our industry’s environmental footprint, advanced materials and chemistry for extreme environments, renewable energy, nanotechnology, robotics, mechatronics, automation, autonomous vehicles and the mobility transformation, power management and energy storage technology, and data analytics. We are founding members of the NorTex Alliance of Petroleum Universities, which includes leading universities in Norway and Texas that are conducting applied research on carbon storage and reuse in operations to improve hydrocarbon recovery. As one of four founding companies that established the Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP) at Stanford University in 2002, Schlumberger has committed almost $25 million in collaboration with 40 institutions worldwide that have collectively committed more than $188 million. GCEP seeks ways to supply energy to meet the changing needs of the growing world population in ways that protect the environment. The project manages a portfolio of innovative energy research programs to develop technologies that are efficient, cost-effective when deployed on a large scale, and environmentally benign. THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTUniversity Relations Our University Relations program helps develop technical leaders and positively influence science and energy technology worldwide. In 2016, we continued to attract talented university graduates; advance education and research in engineering, manufacturing, science, and technology; promote academic entrepreneurship; support technology transfer; foster corporate, social, and environmental responsibility through university partnerships; and become change agents in communities by directly supporting education programs in STEM subjects. Internally, we are aligning University Relations with our transformation program, focusing on efficiency and reliability, and we are working closely with the Cameron Group Integration team. In 2016, we revisited our selection of Ambassador universities and streamlined our Recruiting organization. For the fifth year in a row we retained our leadership position as a Top-50 Global Employer, ranking 28 in attractiveness and 42 overall. Over the past five years, Schlumberger has invested more than $50 million in advancing science and engineering at more than 70 universities around the globe. In 2016, we invested in six technology transfer and commercialization initiatives and our R&E group participated in about 90 collaborations with 65 universities around the world. These collaborations, many of which are ongoing, are directly relevant to the primary technical challenges facing the oil and gas sector. Approximately 49% of our collaborations are related to software development, 30% to advanced materials, and 21% to robotics, mechatronics, and automation. They include technologies for deepwater operations, such as the development of subsea engineering education programs, footprint reduction in operations to extract unconventional resources, materials and chemistries for extreme operating environments, technologies to improve the accuracy of surface and subsurface measurements, and high-performance computing and big-data analytics. Education Program Our education program is building a pipeline of STEM talent. In 2016, we donated more than $1 billion worth of software to more than 600 universities, colleges, and high schools in 70 countries. Almost 50% of this support went to 25 universities, mostly in North America, to support the education of thousands of national and international students and the work of hundreds of professors and research scientists in the earth sciences, petroleum-related engineering disciplines, and software development. In addition, we continue to donate computer equipment to institutions in underprivileged communities and develop a bioassay lab in sub-Saharan Africa to support basic environmental education. More than 20 members of the Schlumberger leadership team serve on university boards around the world. Our representatives also serve on faculty or deans’ industry advisory boards, on departmental industry affiliates committees, and on student project committees at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Schlumberger continues to sponsor and interact with several academic chairs, with a dozen professors active in 2016 and a few recently assigned by host universities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Egypt. This interaction also includes visiting professors in India, Malaysia, Netherlands, and the United States. In 2016, we invested almost $1 million in scholarships, either by supplying direct financial aid or in the form of tools and training. We hosted competitions such as the Schlumberger Ocean Academic Competition, aimed at developing software competencies among select university and high school students, in addition to hosting a PetroChallenge™ competition aimed at promoting deeper knowledge of the sector and inter-disciplinary collaboration across engineering, science and business schools or faculties. We continued to support competitions organized by professional societies, such as the American Association of Petroleum Geologists Imperial Barrel Award and the Society of Exploration Geologists Geosciences without Borders, through grants, direct financing, and donations of software tools and expertise. Furthermore, in 2016 we hosted approximately 700 interns from over 150 universities in more than 75 countries. The candidates came from more than 100 disciplines of study and worked in field operations, applied research, engineering, manufacturing, business, sales, finance, legal, and human resources. Recruiting THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTRecruiting Schlumberger believes in meritocracy, early responsibility, and promotion from within. We provide a challenging workplace, we encourage fair employment practices, and we offer equal opportunities to all of our employees. For five years in a row we have been ranked by Universum as one of the world’s top-50 engineering employers. Hiring for Success Our recruiting strategy is based on a long-term vision. We hire the best talent globally. Our investment in the accelerated development of our people by exposing trainees to multiple experiences across a variety of locations and operations helps us develop an agile workforce and the next generation of business leaders. In 2016, we hired approximately 700 interns, 75% from target universities, and recruited 1,117 graduates, 37% of whom were females. The candidates came from all disciplines of study and worked in field operations, applied research, engineering, manufacturing, business, sales, finance, legal, and human resources. Social Impact Challenge Working in conjunction with the Society of Women Engineers (SWE), the Schlumberger recruiting team in North America challenge were the University of Minnesota in the category Most Volunteering Events; McGill University for Best Video Content; and Tulane University for Best Social Impact Performance. For more information visit www.s2schallenge.com/ Veteran Career Transition Schlumberger held its first Industry Day for veterans in October and provided them with an overview of the oil and gas industry. Other activities for the day included a tour of the Company’s Sugar Land campus, shop facilities, and a drilling rig. Several members of the human resources team volunteered their time and expertise to provide the veterans with a personalized one-on-one resume and interviewing workshop. Schlumberger partnered with the Lone Star Veteran Association, NextOpVets, and several industry organizations to participate in monthly workshops focused on helping veterans transitioning between military and civilian service improve their skills in resume writing, interviewing tips, virtual branding, and financial responsibility. More than 50 veterans attended four workshops in 2016. Recruiting sponsored a Serve 2 Succeed (S2S) social impact challenge by encouraging section members and partners to volunteer in their communities and to turn ideas into positive real-world impact. Over a five-week period in fall 2016, 630 volunteers from 13 universities 275,000 40+ 443 55+ participated in 145 volunteer events, contributing a combined total of almost 500 hours of volunteer time. Winners of the 2016 Job Applicants Countries Universities Disciplines Recruited THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTTraining and Development Our investment in employee training and development is one of the largest among oilfield services companies. High-quality training is fundamental to the success of our employees, as well as to the success of our business. Our ability to adapt to new business challenges depends on the ability of our people to develop their competencies. Training and development are continuous processes at Schlumberger. Training is delivered through classroom-based instruction, live simulations at learning centers, self-paced learning using the latest interactive technologies, and on-the-job education. Development opportunities include coaching, mentoring, and cross-training through career mobility to expose employees to new roles, geographies, business segments, and functions. Depending on job position, all of our employees take various training modules on the topics of ethics, governance, compliance, health, environment, safety, and social responsibility. All employees prepare annual training and development plans with their managers and agree on specific actions for the year. Our goals are to foster partnerships between employees and the Company, and to create value for employees by enabling them to keep their skills current and to develop their talents to their full potential. We also offer a significant number of internships for students, and many of our people started with Schlumberger this way. Interns generally progress through a period of intensive off-the-job technical training or receive on-the-job training interspersed with formal seminars. HSE Training All employees have access to an online application that collects HSE data. The system is used for a variety of functions, including recording and tracking HSE certifications. Throughout their careers, employees are assigned trainings based on specific roles and responsibilities. HSE training is adapted to local conditions and individual job assignments. Employee Development Opportunities are provided for employees to develop their full potential through a combination of training and experience during a progression of roles. For certain positions, our goal is to transfer employees to new roles every 24 to 36 months. Our borderless career philosophy means we support multiple flexible career paths; we take risks on people in developing them across functions, businesses and geographies. We provide employees with the necessary training to enable them to fulfill the requirements of their current role or position. Learning Centers Our global network of learning centers are busy year-round. Our training programs include technical, safety, personal development, business, and managerial courses as well as on-the-job training. New oilfield trainees follow a fixed-step training program that lasts three years, and all employees are offered courses that last from several days to 12 weeks, or are multiyear. Engage to Excel A new employee engagement survey in 2016 aimed at accelerating our transformation and improving our performance received a 95% participation rate by Schlumberger employees. Called Engage to Excel, the survey provided employees around the world with an opportunity to suggest ways to improve their work environment, grow our enterprise, and give back to local communities. More than 93,000 employees in 100 countries responded to 18 survey questions administered by Gallup Inc. The survey uncovered insights that helped Schlumberger identify strengths along with areas that need improvement. NExT NExT, a Schlumberger company, provides training, competency and professional development services for the oil and gas industry. With a portfolio of over 600 courses, training programs, and competency services covering technical and software skills, NExT assists in developing the petrotechnical expertise needed to meet today’s increasingly complex industry challenges. NExT has 24 dedicated subject matter experts and about 3,000 instructors teaching 11 disciplines in 119 countries. In 2016, NExT hosted more than 1,500 classes and trained over 15,000 oil and gas industry professionals. NExT also won the Getenergy Localization award after three consecutive years of winning that organization’s Education and Training Provider of the Year award. Knowledge Management THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTKnowledge Management The approach to knowledge management at Schlumberger encourages employees around the globe to share their expertise across the full spectrum of the Company’s day-to-day activities, this includes topics such as addressing health, safety, and environmental concerns during our operations and best practices across all domains. Using established knowledge management systems and processes, Schlumberger employees address the technical challenges of the oil and gas industry. Within this strong culture of knowledge sharing, the Schlumberger approach to knowledge management enables people to connect, collaborate, and learn from one another on a daily basis. In 2016, our employees viewed 10.8 million pieces of vetted information in the corporate knowledge base, and they accessed over 29,000 entries in our internal encyclopedia more than 20 million times since its inception. To facilitate networking within the Company and encourage knowledge sharing, every employee maintains a curriculum vitae on our intranet, and these are accessed more than 9.8million times annually. For the eleventh year in a row, Schlumberger has been voted a winner in the Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises (MAKE) study—the international benchmark for world-class knowledge organizations. Overall rankings are based on a company's performance in eight individual categories, and in 2016 Schlumberger was voted No. 1 for creating an enterprise knowledge-driven culture, as well as for developing knowledge workers through senior management leadership. The global award recognizes organizations that outperform their peers in creating shareholder wealth by transforming tacit and explicit enterprise knowledge and intellectual capital into superior products, services, or solutions. Knowledge Sharing Number of Times Employee CVs 9,817,908 Are Viewed Number of Times Employees Have Viewed Database Info  10,798,060  Total Number of Objects in Knowledge Base  614,159  Number of Entries in Corporate Encyclopedia  29,000  Total Number of Times Encyclopedia Has Been Accessed  28,000,000  Total Number of Videos Uploaded  1,696  Total Downloads of Technical Articles  234,000  Employees Involved in Forums, Newsletters and Workshops  31,000  Number of Live Webinar Viewers  42,000  Number of Webinars Downloaded  130,000  Number of Webinars  750  Number of Bulletin Board Posts  120,000  Number of Bulletin Board Replies  225,000  THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTDiversity Making diversity a business priority has given us access to the best people, no matter where they were born. Our people are our main asset. Schlumberger sees diversity of its workforce as an important part of its cultural philosophy and a business imperative because it enables the Company to serve clients anywhere in the world. We attract top performers from the countries where we work, and this broad range of perspectives enables us to better understand national issues, respond to local concerns, and deliver services that meet the unique expectations and requirements of our stakeholders and customers. National and Cultural Diversity One of our greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce, with men and women of many nationalities and backgrounds working together and sharing common objectives. Schlumberger recruits and develops people in alignment with our business objectives and proportional to the revenue derived from the countries in which we work. Our long-standing commitment to national and cultural diversity fosters a culture that is global in outlook yet local in practice, and that permeates every layer of the Company, including every level of management. Management Diversity Employees from non-Western nationalities and emerging countries are now integrated into every level of the workforce, including senior management. The composition of our Board of Directors also reflects the diversity of the Company—among our 12 directors, three of which are women, four are citizens of the United States, three are citizens of Norway, and we have one citizen from each of the following countries: Argentina, Canada, France, Russia, and Saudi Arabia. Age Diversity Ongoing changes in the composition of our workforce require an adaptive approach toward recruitment, retention, and the mobility of our employees. As oil and gas companies lose the experience and expertise of senior professionals leaving the industry through retirement, it is important to capture their knowledge and pass it on. Schlumberger is dedicated to hiring, training, and retaining younger professionals to take on the leadership roles being vacated, and we benefit from the perspectives younger employees bring to the Company. Gender Diversity In accordance with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of achieving gender equality, we strive to meet the evolving needs of our workforce in terms of gender equality, work-life balance, and dual career expectations. We believe this focus helps us maintain our competitive edge. Schlumberger continually monitors equality in compensation for men and women globally across all grades with the goal of maintaining equity. Our gender diversity focus began in 1994, when the Company set an overall target of having women comprise 15% of our workforce by 2015. After achieving this milestone ahead of schedule in 2011, we set a new target of having women comprise 25% of our workforce at all levels of the organization by 2020. In 2016, women made up 16.4% of the Schlumberger workforce— double that of the oil and gas industry worldwide. Within our salaried population, 19.2% are female. As of December 31, 2016, we had three female presidents, two female GeoMarket managers, and eight female vice presidents. Connecting Women Connect Women, a networking community within Schlumberger, enables women and men around the globe to ask questions internally and provide guidance on a wide variety of topics, such as career planning, work-life balance, and gender equality. Connect Women’s mission is to empower women to achieve their full potential through networking, mentoring, development, and community outreach. Connect Women has more than 50 local chapters around the world that enable members and managers to meet regularly to exchange ideas and propose concrete actions to facilitate integration and career progression within Schlumberger. In 2016, Connect Women more than doubled its membership to more than 6,800 to become the largest community in Schlumberger. Global activities reached a new record of more than 55,000 downloads and included webinars, newsletters, and highlights of internal and external leaders. Advancing Careers In partnership with Heriot-Watt University in the United Kingdom, Schlumberger offers scholarships for women working on their bachelor's or master's degrees in engineering and science. Students must be in their third year or higher and recipients are awarded financial assistance each year for up to three years of study. Women’s Global Leadership Conference Attracting more than 600 attendees, the Women’s Global Leadership Conference in Energy provides a global gathering for women to meet and discuss issues surrounding leadership in the energy industry. The conference strives to provide a meaningful Diversity THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTdiscussion on all aspects of responsible stewardship ranging from energy security and geopolitics to personal career development. The theme of the 2016 conference, Changing the Landscape of Leadership in the Energy Industry, offered a forum for sharing ideas to support women moving into leadership positions in our industry, and Schlumberger leaders were active participants in the program. The Schlumberger president of North America spoke about, “Listening: An Essential Habit for Effective Leadership.” The Sugar Land test facilities manager moderated a panel discussion titled, “Acceleration of the Big Crew Change: Building a Brighter, Diversified Tomorrow for STEM Professionals,” and our global eCommerce analyst moderated a panel discussion about, “Driving the Future of the Industry: Big Data Initiatives in Oil and Gas.” Our public relations manager of the Western Hemisphere served as chair of the conference advisory board. Additionally, Schlumberger was a Platinum Sponsor of the conference in support of our gender diversity focus. “One of our greatest strengths is the diversity of our workforce around the world. We have men and women of many nationalities and backgrounds working together—this wide variety of perspectives stimulates creativity and innovation and helps maintain our competitive edge.” – Patrick Schorn, President Operations Revenue Contribution National and Cultural (percentage) 15 Latin America  34 Middle East, Asia  27 Europe, CIS, Africa  24 North America  85+ 140+ Countries We Nationalities Work In Represented in Our Workforce  Nationality Mix (percentage)  Gender Diversity (percentage)  13  29  38  20  16.4  18.9  20.5  9.2  Latin America  Middle East, Asia  Europe, CIS, Africa  North America  Women in the Company  Women in Management Positions  Women in Junior Management Positions  Women in Top Management Positions  THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTLocal Initiatives and Global Impact As a multinational company, Schlumberger conducts business in more than 85 countries. In each of those countries, our employees are also active and engaged community members, parents, and volunteers. Wherever we work and live, we engage with local institutions, coordinate our activities with community initiatives and objectives, and invest in local capacity building. Our approach as global stewards is to focus on local concerns where we can make a positive difference and have the greatest impact. Local Initiatives and Global Impact THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENTSpotlight on Latin America Schlumberger brings value to host countries by hiring and training local workers, procuring local supplies and services, and building capacity among local suppliers. In this section, we highlight some of our community engagement activities in Latin America. Ecuador Disaster Relief Fund When a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck Ecuador on April 16, 2016, 600 hundred people lost their lives and tens of thousands were left homeless. Along with confirming that all of our employees were safe, Schlumberger set up a disaster relief fund to support the affected communities. To help provide food, water, and power, our employees made personal donations from wherever they were in the world, and the Company matched every donated dollar for a total of $284,000. Schlumberger arranged for two helicopters to assist in the relief efforts while local employees participated in the construction of two potable water wells and helped deliver food, supplies, water, and medicine. In Houston, Schlumberger summer externs prepared and packaged 1,000 "Think Like a Scientist" kits that were sent to schools in the affected area. These activities are designed to bring out positive feelings by implementing a play approach to learning by using accessible materials that students can take with them to help them feel motivated and empowered. Social Investment in Ecuador On its large-footprint projects in Ecuador, in 2016 Schlumberger Production Management developed a voluntary social investment program to ensure good social and environmental performance across the contracting chain. In a series of workshops with the operator and its first-tier contractors, Schlumberger identified three areas of social investment that all partners agreed would best create shared value for both the community and their businesses: community health, education, and arts and culture. In order to effect measurable long-term benefits and social change to local communities, the partners sought to focus resources by identifying legacy programs that could be revitalized or expanded. This new collaboration across the contracting chain has created a greater awareness of community priorities, understanding of the community’s expectations of the industry, and a new starting point for transformation in the communities where we work and live. Petroleum Education in Venezuela Almost 200 preschool children in La Vega, Venezuela, learned about the oil and gas industry when Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) volunteers visited to present, “A Petroleum Day in My School.” The presentation included instructional videos, models, and games in addition to maps illustrating oilfield activities in Venezuela. In addition, SEED Venezuela hosted a workshop called “Ecology, Energy, and Energy Saving” in partnership with a local science and technology organization, FONACIT. This workshop focused on the importance of energy in powering today’s world, and how energy-saving initiatives at work and in the home can help make the world more ecologically sustainable. Venezuela has one of the largest oil reserves in the world, the Orinoco Oil Belt. Work Anniversary in Mexico We conducted our first well logs in Mexico in 1936 using manually operated equipment, and in 1943 a subsidiary company, Schlumberger Surenco S.A., ran the first electric log in the Poza Rica #25 well. Since then Schlumberger has introduced numerous technologies for every service line in the Company’s portfolio. Today we conduct operations from bases in Villahermosa, Poza Rica, Reynosa, Tampico, Ciudad del Carmen, and Veracruz, as well as from manufacturing and support centers in Monterrey and Mexico City. The Company celebrated its 80th anniversary of operations in Mexico with a variety of events, and for the eighth consecutive year Schlumberger was recognized by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy with a “Socially Responsible Company“ award. During 2016, we assisted Ecuador‘s earthquake victims and gained a better understanding of expectations and priorities for social investment in local communities. Track Record Schlumberger was recognized in 2016 by a variety of organizations for excellence in sustainability innovation and technology development. In addition, we have a well-established track record in ESG matters, which is evaluated annually against international standards and guidelines. 2016 Awards and Recognition THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY 2016 Awards and Recognition In 2016, we continued to be recognized for our educational programs and for our corporate emphasis on social responsibility. We believe that our size and geographic reach enables us to make valuable contributions to developing economies by hiring locally, by building domestic capacity in our supply chains, and by offering other forms of support for the communities where we live and work. Schlumberger is also widely respected for technology advances that help customers produce oil and gas more efficiently while helping them conserve natural resources and minimize their environmental footprint. This year we received numerous awards from industry peers honoring our technology advantage. Sustainability Awards Getenergy Ltd. Localization Award of the Year NExT Schlumberger has received the Localization Award of the Year from Getenergy Ltd. This award recognizes organizations that have contributed to supporting local education and supply chain capacity building. Getenergy Ltd., a global education and training organization for the energy industry, focuses on designing and operating events that link education provision and the oil and gas industry. Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises (MAKE) 2016 Global MAKE Award For the eleventh consecutive year, Schlumberger was voted a winner in the Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises (MAKE) study—the international benchmark for world-class knowledge organizations. Managed by Teleos, the 2016 Global MAKE study ranked Schlumberger in fourth place overall. The award recognizes organizations that outperform their peers in creating shareholder wealth by transforming tacit and explicit enterprise knowledge and intellectual capital into superior products, services, or solutions. Teleos is an independent research company in knowledge management and intellectual capital areas. Junior Achievement President’s Volunteer Service Award Schlumberger received a Junior Achievement USA Bronze President’s Volunteer Service Award (PVSA) for the 2015–2016 program year. Created by the President’s Council on Service and Civic Participation, the award is given to individuals and organizations who contribute a significant amount of time to volunteer service. Schlumberger volunteers contributed more than 5,000 hours of teaching to students in the Houston area. The PVSA is a premier volunteer awards program that encourages citizens to live a life of service through presidential gratitude and national recognition. Learn more about the Schlumberger track record: www.slb.com/globalstewardship/trackrecord THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY GulfTalent Top 20 Most Popular Employers for Saudi Graduates Schlumberger earned third-place on a list of the most sought-after multinational employers in an annual survey by GulfTalent of recent graduates at the King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals in Saudi Arabia. GulfTalent’s 2016 study was based on a survey of 224 recent graduates and final-year students from King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals. Saudi Aramco iktva Excellence Award Schlumberger received a Saudi Aramco iktva Supplier Excellence Award in the category of “Highest in Saudi Workforce”. Designed to drive domestic value creation with the aim of achieving 70% localization of all spending on goods and services and enabling the export of 30% of Saudi energy sector products by 2021, iktva is Saudi Aramco’s flagship localization initiative. PwC Global 2016 FutureBrand Index Schlumberger ranked 45 on the 2016 FutureBrand Index, a global perception study of the PwC Global Top 100 Companies by market capitalization. Now in its third year, the index offers a rigorous assessment of how “future proof” the world’s 100 most prominent companies are. Companies are measured across six key perception categories to produce a ranking of companies that have the right qualities in balance. The 2016 FutureBrand Index explores the rise of consumer services organizations in the context of digital transformation and the new rules of customer experience. FutureToday Top Employers in Russia Schlumberger ranked at No. 17 among university students attending oil and gas-related faculties in Russia, and No. 45 overall among students attending Russian universities, according to a poll conducted by FutureToday. FutureToday is the leading Russian provider of graduate recruitment and employer branding services. Barron’s World’s Most Respected Companies 2016 Schlumberger ranked at No. 26 on Barron’s Top 100 World’s Most Respected Companies list for 2016. Every year Barron´s surveys professional money managers about their views of the world´s 100 largest companies by market value. About 75% of survey participants said they highly respect or respect the Company. SyncForce Ranking the Brands Top 100 is a consolidated ranking based on all globally published brand rankings. Rigzone Magazine Global Top-10 Ideal Employers Rigzone’s Ideal Employer Survey, carried out between July and September, asked 8,400 respondents in more than 100 countries which company they would most like to work for. Schlumberger ranked at No. 6 in the magazine’s list of Global Top-10 Ideal Employers. Rigzone’s first annual Ideal Employer research explored current market sentiments of global oil and gas professionals, particularly in regard to their choice of ideal employers and their reasoning behind this choice. Sustainability Awards THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY Forbes Middle East Magazine Top 100 Executives The Schlumberger Middle East and Asia president was recognized by the business publication Forbes Middle East, ranking at No. 30 in the publication’s list of Top 100 Executives in the Middle East and North Africa region. Forbes Middle East Magazine features articles and reports related to the finance and business world. ConocoPhillips HSE Excellence Award The Schlumberger Alaska team received the ConocoPhillips HSE Excellence Award as recognition for demonstrating commitment to HSE excellence and the guiding principles of the incident-free culture at ConocoPhillips. Recipients of this award are selected by evaluation of both leading and lagging indicators over a period of a few years. Schlumberger Alaska has seen significant improvement in both Total Recordable Incidents Rate as well as Spill Rate since 2014. With almost 15,000 people working in 20 countries of operations, ConocoPhillips is committed to the efficient and effective exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Institutional Investor Magazine 2016 Most Honored Company Schlumberger ranked among the top companies for corporate leadership and investor relations expertise in the 2016 Institutional Investor All-America Executive Team rankings.  A total of 1,930 companies in the United States received votes in this year’s All-America Executive Team survey, and Schlumberger was one among 144 companies to receive a “Most Honored” distinction. For more than 30 years, Institutional Investor has recognized people and firms in the financial services industry for excellence. IR Magazine Global Top 50 Gold Ranking: 2016 Schlumberger ranked No. 12 on IR Magazine’s 2016 list of Global Top 50 companies for meeting international standards of disclosure, transparency, and communication in investor relations. IR Magazine’s Global Top 50 ranking celebrates companies that demonstrate excellence in communicating with their shareholders and that get their investor relations (IR) programs right all the time. 2016 Best in Sector: Energy IR Magazine ranked Schlumberger as Best in Sector: Energy for 2016 in the Investor Perception Study-United States. In total, 342 American companies across a range of sectors and market capitalizations were ranked in the magazine’s 2016 investor perception study. IR Magazine is a publication of IR Media Group, a business media company. Originally launched in 1988 by the Economist Group, IR Magazine is known for providing quality insight and a global perspective. Newsweek Green Rankings Schlumberger placed 124 in the United States and 220 worldwide in the 2016 Newsweek Green Rankings, which measure corporate sustainability and environmental impact among 500 of the world's largest publicly traded companies. Schlumberger placed fourth in the energy sector in the US rankings, and 10th in the energy sector in the world rankings. The 2016 rankings feature eight key performance indicators used to assess and measure corporate environmental performance. Based on research from Corporate Knights and HIP (Human Impact + Profit) Investor Inc., the Newsweek Green Rankings are one of the world's most recognized assessments of corporate environmental performance. United States Department of Defense Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Pro Patria Award Schlumberger received an Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Pro Patria Award, the highest award presented by the United States Department of Defense at the state level. The annual award is presented to recipients who have demonstrated support to Guard and Reserve employees through their leadership and practices, including adopting personnel policies that make it easier for employees to participate in the National Guard and Reserve. Schlumberger employees perform a variety of community service and outreach activities within the veteran community. THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY Military Friendly Employer Schlumberger received a Military Friendly Employer designation, ranking at No. 4 in the nation within the manufacturing industry. The award considered the overall percentage of veterans in our workforce, the percentage of veterans we hired in the previous year, what we do for the veteran community, and what we do for our veteran employees in terms of career development, military leave policy, and removing barriers to entry. Military Friendly Spouse Employer Schlumberger received a Military Friendly Spouse Employer designation, ranking No. 1 in the nation within the manufacturing industry. The award was given to recognize spouses of employees who led a variety of projects that benefited the veteran community. The US Department of Defense bestows Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve awards to recognize employers who support their Guard and Reserve employees. Royal Society of Chemistry Industry and Technology Awards Industrial Analytical Science Award Schlumberger Gould Research received an award for the development of cutting-edge industrial sensors to monitor the impact of climate change and how to optimize new fuels to combat it. The Royal Society of Chemistry is the world’s leading chemistry community, advancing excellence in the chemical sciences. The Industry and Technology Awards recognize talented teams and individuals across the chemistry-using industry. Center for Offshore Safety Safety and Environmental Management Systems Certification The Center for Offshore Safety issued its first safety and environmental management systems (SEMS) certification outside of the Gulf of Mexico to Schlumberger North America. This is the second voluntary SEMS certification of the Schlumberger program, which now encompasses the Alaska region. The Center for Offshore Safety is an industry-led group promoting continuous safety improvement for offshore drilling, completions, and operations through effective leadership, communication, teamwork, disciplined management systems, and independent third-party auditing and certification. Brazil National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels Technology Innovation Award CO2 Self-Healing and Resistant Cement Systems Schlumberger Well Services and Petrobras were jointly honored with a 2016 Technology Innovation Award for the Schlumberger C02 Self-Healing and Resistant Cement System. Awarded by the Brazilian National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels, the Technology Innovation Award encourages and recognizes innovative technologies with applicability in the oil and gas industry. The Brazil National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels presents the Technology Innovation Award award for technologies developed in Brazil by large enterprises in collaboration with Petrobras, the Brazilian national oil company. Employee Recognition A book chronicling the lives of female geologists through memories shared by family and friends was released in Houston at the annual American Association of Petroleum Geologists conference. Anomalies: Pioneering Women in Petroleum Geology: 1917 to 2017 features female pioneers in petroleum geology and includes a profile of the director of global social responsibility at Schlumberger. The Greater Houston Women’s Chamber of Commerce (GHWCC) honored our director of educational programming with a 2016 Advocate of the Year award. GHWCC is a nonprofit business organization of influential women and men dedicated to the advancement and empowerment of women through avenues of leadership, education, advocacy, and mentoring. Schlumberger has been a member of the GHWCC for five years. Our executive vice president of corporate development and communications accepted a Global Impact Award presented by the Houston Area Chapter of the United Nations Association. The award recognizes the global philanthropic and outreach efforts of Schlumberger, in particular our work to promote education in STEM fields of study. The Houston Area Chapter of the United Nations Association is one of the oldest and largest of 160 chapters in the United States. Technology Awards THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY Technology Awards 2016 World Oil Awards The annual World Oil Awards program recognizes the upstream oil and gas industry’s leading innovations. In 2016, four Schlumberger technologies were honored with industry awards. Best Completion Technology Award: The Manara production and reservoir management system, developed in collaboration with Saudi Aramco, provides downhole permanent monitoring and in-lateral flow control of multiple zones and compartments in real time—for the first time, even in multilateral wells. Best Drilling and Completion Fluids Award: The HydraGlyde high-performance water-base drilling fluid system delivers an oil-base mud–comparable rate of penetration (ROP), exceptional hole cleaning, and superb wellbore stability in high-angle build and long-lateral sections. Best Health, Safety, Environment/Sustainable Development – Onshore Award: The xWATER integrated water-flexible fracturing fluid delivery service enables 100% reuse of produced water while also reducing or eliminating the costs associated with water acquisition, transportation or conveyance, water treatment, and disposal. Best Well Intervention Technology Award: The ProMILL trip-saving milling and underreaming system combines an underreamer and a section mill in one single-trip solution, achieving rock-to-rock zonal isolation and preparing the foundation for an abandonment cement barrier. Performing both operations in the same trip not only saves rig time and improves ROP but ensures plug integrity for confident plug and abandonment decisions. The World Oil Awards recognize and honor the upstream industry’s top innovations and innovators. E&P Magazine 2016 Meritorious Awards for Engineering Innovation The following awards were presented to winners who spanned a broad range of disciplines and addressed a number of problems that pose roadblocks to efficient operations. The resulting technological advances opened new and better avenues to the challenging process of finding and producing hydrocarbons worldwide. In 2016, Schlumberger received the following awards: Drilling Fluids/Stimulation • Broadband Services composite fracturing fluids, Schlumberger Drilling Systems • ICE UltraHT drilling services, Schlumberger Intelligent Systems and Components • Manara production and reservoir management system, Saudi Aramco and Schlumberger Water Management • xWATER integrated water-flexible fracturing fluid delivery service, Schlumberger The annual Hart Energy Meritorious Award honors engineering excellence and achievement in the upstream petroleum industry. The program recognizes new products and technologies that demonstrate innovation in concept, design, and application. Offshore Technology Conference Spotlight on New Technology Awards The Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) recognizes innovative technologies with the Spotlight on New Technology Awards. Winning technologies are selected based on four criteria: • New and Innovative: less than two years old; original and groundbreaking • Proven: through full-scale application or successful prototype testing • Broad Interest: broad appeal for the industry • Significant Impact: provides significant benefits beyond existing technologies In 2016, Schlumberger received meritorious awards for the following technologies: AquaWatcher™ Water Analysis Sensor The OneSubsea AquaWatcher™ Water Analysis Sensor detects minuscule quantities of water in multiphase and wet gas flows and determines the salinity of that water. The patent-pending technology can also measure the concentration of chemicals in water to determine accurate dosage requirements, thus enabling significant risk reduction and reduced costs. HyFleX™ Subsea Tree System OneSubsea HyFleX™ Subsea Tree System provides benefits of both vertical and horizontal conventional trees. Designed so the tubing hanger and tree can be installed and recovered independently of each other, it provides functional flexibility and the ability to batch set wells, mitigate risk, and save significant costs both in field development and over the life of the field. The Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) is the world’s largest trade show for offshore resources in drilling, exploration, production, and environmental protection. OTC is sponsored by 13 industry organizations and societies. THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY Global Reporting Initiative G4 Disclosures The Schlumberger 2016 Global Stewardship Report was developed using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as our main reference. The GRI guidelines help businesses, governments, and other organizations measure and report their sustainability performance in the areas of economic, environmental, and social impacts. In addition to using the GRI guidelines, we have been influenced by guidelines issued by IPIECA; American Petroleum Institute; International Association of Oil & Gas Producers; and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. These organizations include indicators and reporting elements to help companies report on priority issues. Material issues for the oil and gas industry include a range of environmental, social, and governance topics. Based primarily on information obtained through regular and ongoing interaction with our customers, Schlumberger reports on data that is relevant to our Company performance and to our external audiences and stakeholders. The content in this report was chosen based on a materiality review using the criteria of applicability, degree of impact, and risk. When an indicator is deemed to be useful, we provide reliable and verifiable data to the greatest extent possible utilizing internal data collection systems. In addition, we have engaged PwC to review our processes and procedures and to verify a sample of the data listed below. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are in all material respects fairly presented and in accord with guidelines used by Schlumberger. The table that follows identifies and maps specific GRI and IPIECA reporting indicators by providing page locations for information covered in this report, which is specific to Schlumberger. Standard Standard IPIECA Information Disclosure Disclosure Title Indicator Location 