2015 Global Stewardship Highlights Schlumberger Limited This is Schlumberger For nearly 90 years, Schlumberger has developed innovative technologies that enable our customers to extract oil and gas in a safe and responsible manner. In our global operations we have adopted an engineered approach based on understanding the reservoir and integrating state of the art technologies and services to deliver consistent, safe, and efficient operations. This approach results in fewer but better wells that require less resources, leading to a reduced operational footprint and decreases in traffic and greenhouse gas emissions. Chairman’s Message     ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Chairman’s Message A long-standing focus on the science of measurement has established Schlumberger as the leading technology provider for the oil and gas industry. Our customers depend upon us to acquire data and maximize its use to achieve their exploration and production goals. Their trust in us is also accompanied by a global responsibility to minimize the environmental impact and risks associated with our operations. This forms the basis of our vision of Global Stewardship, which includes a social responsibility to the people in the communities where we live and work. While Schlumberger technical expertise enables us to design the most efficient operations and maximize hydrocarbon recovery and production, this translates into the use of technology and processes that optimize water use, ensure well integrity, and reduce emissions. Thus, stewardship of the environment in which we work is inherent in our drive to optimize our global operations. Our technology enables us and our customers to reduce environmental footprint, we also seek to make a positive impact in local communities by applying our high standards of conduct. Our global ambassadors are an international workforce of professionals who represent more than 140 nationalities. Their behavior is guided by The Blue Print in Action—Our Code of Conduct, which guides us in matters of social responsibility, business transparency, and trade compliance. Global Stewardship is a pillar upon which Schlumberger seeks to increase the sustainability of the ways in which the oil and gas industry finds, develops, and produces hydrocarbons. As such, Global Stewardship is also an integral part of the Schlumberger legacy to protect the world’s natural resources for the generations to come. Sincerely, Paal Kibsgaard, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Governance and Ethics We are pleased to present the inaugural edition of  for social and environmental stewardship, and to lead the development  our Global Stewardship Highlights booklet. This  of new technologies to assist the E&P industry in meeting its global  booklet is a concise snapshot of our 2015 Global  citizenship responsibilities in the communities where we live and work.  Stewardship Report. It is designed to provide a  high-level overview of the Schlumberger Global  Jean-Francois Poupeau  Stewardship program. The booklet also showcases  Executive Vice President,  our commitment to be a leading and unifying voice  Corporate Development & Communications  Governance and Ethics Schlumberger is committed to adhering to sound principles of corporate governance and has adopted best practices that promote the effective functioning of our Board of Directors and our Company. We strive to maintain the trust and confidence of our customers and stockholders as well as everyone affected by our operations. When we are seen to behave in an ethical manner, we enhance our reputation for integrity, which in turn helps us attract and retain both customers and employees. The Blue Print in Action Our Code of Conduct guides employees in making decisions on the job. The Blue Print details company principles, including anticorruption measures, intellectual property protection, and social responsibility. All employees must comply with and be accountable to our Code of Conduct. Governance and Ethics     ENVIRONMENT      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD 2015 Materiality Material issues for the oil and gas industry include a range of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics. Based primarily on information obtained through regular and ongoing interaction with our customers, Schlumberger reports on data that is relevant to our company performance and to our external audiences and stakeholders. Governance & Ethics Board Leadership, Responsibility, and Diversity Executive Compensation Ethics, Integrity, Compliance, and Transparency Fiscal Responsibly Environment Well Integrity Water Reduction Greenhouse Gas Emissions Waste & Containment Biodiversity Climate Change Energy Efficiency Research and Development Resource Consumption Risk Management Technology Impact Social and Economic Impact Human Rights Local Investment Stakeholder Engagement Supply Chain Management Community Community Engagements STEM & HSE Education Health and Safety Driving and Injury Prevention Contractor and Supplier Management Crisis Management Employee Health and Safety HSE Training and Management Process Improvement Employment and Human Capital Employee Benefits and Compensation Gender Diversity Global (Nationality) Diversity Knowledge Management Recruiting Training and Development University Relations Environment Many of our technologies have increasingly important roles to play in lowering environmental impact for us and our customers while more efficiently and reliably optimizing the production and recovery of non renewable resources. Environmental Performance THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Environmental Performance Schlumberger is committed to responsible stewardship of the world in which we live. We strive to meet international environmental standards and regulations and to exceed customer expectations by managing risk, preventing pollution, minimizing waste and natural resource consumption, and lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We help ensure success by continuously improving the quality of our processes, services, and products. The information that follows describes some of the actions we are taking to minimize our environmental impact, and the technologies we have developed that are helping our customers ensure well integrity, reduce water usage, and lower emissions while drilling and completing oil and gas wells. Climate Change As a global technology leader, we believe that our ability to address climate change issues with innovative new technologies and increased operational performance is integral to the energy industry’s global initiative to reduce carbon footprint. It is also aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals of reducing environmental impact and fostering technology innovation. Operational Integrity As a part of our multi-year transformation program, Schlumberger is committed to achieving a tenfold improvement in operational reliability by 2020. In 2015, we improved our nonproductive time (NPT) rate by 23% over 2014—a huge achievement given industry conditions at that time. Approxi.mately 25% of the reliability issues our customers face stem from product reliability, where we have reduced our nonproductive time rate by 80%. Restoring Harmony to our Operating Area The rain forests surrounding our oilfield activity in Ecuador are being restored. In 2015, the first phase of a multi-phase revegetation effort in the Shushufindi-Aguarico field was launched, which involved work to prepare the site to receive more than 10,000 local species of plants and trees. The first phase of the reforestation project covered an area of about 2.9 hectares, or 7.2 acres, and subsequent phases will cover an additional 2.9 hectares. THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Environmental Performance Performance Data We continue to seek opportunities to reduce our direct consumption of resources, reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, and reduce the quantity of wastes we generate. In 2015, Schlumberger continued to improve internal data-gathering procedures, database systems, and reporting practices for greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, electricity generation, and waste. CO2e Emitted (Scope 1 and 2) Water Use (million tonnes) (million cubic meters) 2.85 3.3 3.0 1.98 2014 2015 2014 2015 Electricity Consumption Waste Generated By Year (thousands of MWh) (thousand tonnes) 1,100 450 930 410  2014a 2015 2014 2015 a2014 data has been restated to reflect actual volumes and amounts due to improved data collection methods and an increased capacity to measure sustainability metrics. Air Emissions Schlumberger activities, products, and services are designed and procured with a goal of efficiently managing resource consumption across the life cycle. Through increased internal resource efficiency, we are finding new ways to reduce emissions. Water Use Water is used in our engineering centers and field operations facilities for equipment manufacturing and cleaning, as well as for camp and catering purposes. Waste Management To better manage waste materials, Schlumberger is constantly improving processes and materials. We reuse materials when possible, recycle more for our own operations and for our customers, and use our novel technologies to find new recovery methods. In 2015, we worked with our waste management contractors to improve data collection, particularly in North America. Renewable Electricity Generation Schlumberger purchases electrical energy in 85 countries around the world, and in 2015 we consumed 930,000 MWh of electricity worldwide. Of this amount, 25,108 MWh were generated in the United Kingdom as low-carbon electricity. On- and off-shore wind accounted for about 83% of the electricity Schlumberger used in 2015 in the UK, followed by hydro, landfill gas, and biomass. Technology Advantage THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER      COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Technology Advantage Schlumberger technologies bring value by helping our customers optimize oil and gas production, use fewer resources, improve efficiencies, reduce emissions, and minimize water use. Our technologies and processes also address sustainability issues by meeting or exceeding challenging international regulatory requirements and by addressing the growing expectations of society for cleaner services and products. The technologies listed have been selected for their environmental attributes and their ability to help our customers lower emissions, apply better chemistries, optimize production, and reduce resource consumption. More extensive information on the environmental benefits of these and many other Schlumberger technologies can be found on our Global Stewardship website. Biodiversity Decreases Air Emissions Reduces Water Use Recycle/Reduce Waste Reduces Footprint/Land Use Reduces Transportation Cleaner Chemistry More Effi ciency (Saves Time) Reduces Risk xWATER*      GeoSphere*     NeoScope*     OptiDrill*     D236* Cement Retarder    D239* Cement Extender   Losseal Reservoir Fracture*      MUDPUSH Express*    Petrel*/Studio WorldMap  