Human Rights in our Supply Chain Schlumberger endeavors to work with suppliers that conduct business  in a professional, ethical, socially responsible, and cost-effective manner consistent with our policies, procedures, and business objectives. We require that our suppliers, contractors, and labor agents comply with the laws of the countries in which they operate, or with industry guidelines where they exist and are more stringent than local law. Consistent with our recognition of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP), we are actively working to incorporate human rights due diligence within our supply chains. We prohibit any use or contracting, directly or indirectly, of child labor, forced labor, human trafficking, or any  form of slavery and are committed to continuously improving the labor  standards performance of our suppliers. In addition, through our human  rights program and by actively engaging with our suppliers, we seek to influence the productivity of each of our suppliersﾕ workforces in recognition of the ways that substandard working conditions can lead to poor safety performance and poor business outcomes. Since 2018, Schlumbergerﾕs cross-functional human rights working group, supported by senior leadership and consisting of representatives from the legal, supply chain, human resources, HSE, and sustainability functions, has overseen our efforts to identify and prevent exploitative work practices and modern slavery in our operations, value chain, and business relationships. In addition, Schlumbergerﾕs Human Rights Position Statement addresses human rights in the supply chain as a salient issue.  In 2020, we used the findings of a high-level human rights risk assessment of our global supply chain to improve our risk identification and assessment processes, including by launching a pilot project in four regions to assess our approach and standardize how we screen higher-risk suppliers. Other key supplier-related human rights activities included: ･ Creating a dedicated role in our planning and supply chain organization  to strengthen management and oversight of our sustainable supply  chain program ･ Developing a company-wide human rights training plan ･ Updating our website with additional guidance for Schlumberger suppliers regarding, among other things, respect for human rights ･ Integrating human rights moments into supplier performance reviews and supplier forums to better communicate our expectations on human rights ･ Requiring our global staffing and recruitment agencies to complete an  industry-standard human rights due diligence self-assessment questionnaire ･ Refreshing our compliance audit tool for remote and onsite core audits, in line with our procedures as well as guidance relating to on-site labor assessments from IPIECA ･ Developing an internal compliance audit tool for onsite self-assessments  of Schlumberger facilities, piloted in Brazil, to identify specific indicators  of human rights risk ･ Establishing an anti-human trafficking working group in North America  to increase awareness of the issues and mobilize employees to combat human trafficking. Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report National and Cultural Diversity Our employees represent more than 160 nationalities, with people from many different backgrounds working together and sharing common objectives. Schlumberger recruits and develops people in alignment with our business objectives and aims to maintain our population diversity in proportion to the revenue derived from the countries in which we work. Our long-standing  commitment to national and cultural diversity fosters a culture that is global in outlook yet local in practice, and this permeates every layer of the company, including every level of management. Nationalities in Nationalities Nationalities in our Executive among our  160 9 110 our Workforce Leadership Team Managers Employees from non-Western countries and emerging economies are  integrated into every level of our workforce, including senior management. Our executive leadership team includes officers from Europe, North America, Asia, Australia, North Africa, and the Middle East. Our Board also reflects the diversity of the company. Two of our ten directors are women. Among our directors, three are citizens of France, two are citizens of the United States, one is a citizen of Australia, one is a citizen of Norway, one is a citizen of Switzerland, one is a dual citizen of both Russia and Israel, and one is a dual citizen of both Argentina and the United Kingdom. Employee Resource Groups To encourage a sense of belonging for all our employees, we have established several employee-led networks that support our inclusion culture by breaking down barriers and promoting equal opportunity for everyone. These employee networks help us to build a workplace for everyone and one that better reflects both our customers and the communities in which we live and work. In 2020, membership in our network of employee resource groups (ERGs) reached almost 7,000.  Our ERGs are global networks whose members engage and collaborate with each other to build an inclusive, global community. Below are some examples: ･ Connect Women: Connect Women is an internal Schlumberger  networking community, in which employees of all genders meet regularly  to exchange ideas, promote gender equality, and support career progression within Schlumberger. In 2020,Connect Women organized 18 global webinars and roundtable discussions to promote self-development and knowledge sharing, which received more than 10,000 views. Connect Womenﾕs local chapters also hosted additional events. ･ Black Organization for Leadership & Diversity (BOLD): In the United States, the Black Organization for Leadership & Diversity (BOLD) strives to foster a work culture in which employees of African descent feel valued and empowered. BOLD supports the companyﾕs efforts for recruitment,  advancement, and career development for this underrepresented group. BOLD is open to all employees who are interested in the promotion and advocacy of equality in the workplace, and its membership is not limited  by race, ethnicity, or geography. ･ LGBT+Allies: We strive to foster a culture where employees who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or nonbinary are encouraged to be their authentic selves and are respected as valued members of the  Schlumberger team. Supported by a sponsor from the executive team,  in 2020 our LGBT+Allies ERG held a webcast attended by more than  3,000 employees around the world to raise awareness at all levels and provide guidance on supporting our LGBT+ colleagues across the company. ･ Veterans: The Schlumberger Veteran Program seeks to empower  veterans through successful recovery and transition after military service, and our Veterans Resource Group supports that effort. Through this  program, Schlumberger representatives host or participate in veteran community engagement events at universities, military bases, and certain Schlumberger facilities. Racial Equality In the United States, 34% of our employees identified as a member of an underrepresented group as of December 2020. As such, we have a number of ongoing initiatives related to racial equality, including our BOLD ERG. We also chaired the Racial Equality Task Force of the Energy Workforce & Technology Council (the Council), which in 2020 developed an action plan and working groups that are continuing to meet to discuss diversity, race and ethnicity topics. The task forceﾕs findings on racial injustice were incorporated into the Councilﾕs 2020 Diversity and Inclusion business champion training program, from which more than 50 Schlumberger employees have graduated. That content is being carried over into the 2021 program curriculum. Veterans In 2020, the Schlumberger Veteran Program worked closely with Honor  Flight Houston to identify US World War II veterans who had served in France during the war. With the help of the French Consulate General in Houston,  we submitted their service records to the Grand Chancellor of the Legion  of Honor in Paris, for review to receive the Legion of Honor, the highest  French order of merit. Ultimately, eight veterans were awarded the coveted medal. Representatives from Schlumberger and the French Consulate  General met with each veteran in person as they were presented the Legion of Honor medal. Since 2018, Schlumberger has been recognized as a Military Friendlyｨ Employer each year by VIQTORY, which rates companies on their programs  to recruit and retain veteran employees. The 2020 recognition was upgraded to ﾒgoldﾓ status, and Schlumberger was listed as a Top Ten Military Friendly Employer. In addition, early in the COVID-19 pandemic, members of the Schlumberger Veteran Engagement Team sewed hundreds of face masks to donate them to first responders. Gender Balance We incentivize Schlumberger managers to continuously challenge gender stereotypes and to monitor and increase the representation of women within their teams. At year-end 2020, our gender balance milestone was for women to comprise 25% of our salaried workforce by 2025. A portion of the 2020 short-term cash incentive compensation opportunity for our CEO and other members of our senior management was based on achieving our annual  internal gender balance objectives as part of that 2025 goal. Beginning in 2021, we set our next milestone to continue our progressﾑfor women to comprise 30% of our salaried workforce by 2030. In 2020, we made significant progress on our gender balance strategy,  particularly in leadership roles. We increased our female salaried workforce by 8% year-over-year, from 20.9% in 2019 to 22.6% in 2020. Women held 17.3% of all senior management roles at the Company in 2020, a 31%  increase year-over-year. FEMALE REPRESENTATION IN MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP POSITIONS 25% In addition, women represented approximately 45% of our 2020 hires of  salaried employees with STEM backgrounds, up from 40% in 2019. Year Hires with a STEM Background, % Women 2019 40% 2020 45% Schlumberger continually monitors the progression of women in technical roles and compensation equality for women and men across all roles globally, with the goal of maintaining pay equity. We comply with applicable laws and regulations in various jurisdictions requiring reporting of gender diversity and pay parity data. Our gender balance journey is further supported by several ongoing initiatives and forums related to improving gender balance, focused on recruitment, professional development, education and mentorship.  We also have various annual programs, including in 2020, a refresh of the global standard for the female-friendly work environment particularly aimed at women in the field. Centralized Compensation Process Our philosophy is to offer a comprehensive and balanced compensation and benefits package to all our employees. This is guided by a defined framework and independently managed by our Human Resources function to provide a gender-blind, unbiased evaluation of remuneration levels based on skills. Talent Management Process ･ Performance Appraisal: Every employee is assessed on their inclusive  behaviors during their annual performance appraisal. We analyze  performance appraisals every year across the organization to identify  potential gender bias in the evaluation of employees. All managers receive an annual refresher on conducting performance appraisals. ･ Talent Identification: To actively maintain our leadership and key expertise talent pipeline, top performers in every team are identified annually across the company. We perform a systematic validation of the representation of women and URNs as part of this process to maintain fair and equitable access to technical, functional, and operational leadership roles. 23.4% 22.6% 2019 2020 22.2% 20.9% 20% 17.2% 17.3% 16.3% 15% Key metrics Gender balance of hires Employee engagement index by gender % women assigned to key roles 10% and nationality Number of target schools and universities % women and underrepresented nationalities % female retention (URNs) in leadership pipeline Gender balance of recruiters 5% % women in field, technical, and leadership positions % women and URNs in succession pools Among our key metrics, policies, and practices across the talent development life cycle that support diversity and gender balance are the following: PAY EQUITY IN HIRING AND AT ALL LEVELS Recruiting Employee Experience Promotion and Staffing  Global policies Recruiting standard Dual career standard Performance management All Salaried Junior Middle Senior Minimum parental leave policy Talent management standard Employees Management Management Management 0% Practices and processes  Recruiter bias training   Employee engagement survey  Performance appraisal  Inclusive leadership training  Review of female and URNs representation in talent  Women in the Field survey  identification and succession planning processes  Field location audits for being female friendly  Mentoring programs  ･ Succession Planning: Succession planning is conducted for every  management role across the company and reviewed annually.  All succession pools are systematically reviewed to take into account  gender and nationality diversity of the candidates in line for management roles. For senior leadership roles, additional discussions take place to  identify areas of development and potential sponsorship needs. Dual Careers First introduced in 2007, our dual career standard sets fair and consistent global guidelines to cover career continuity and development for a couple when both members are Schlumberger employees. It also provides  standardized guidance and support when a partner is employed by another company. In addition, the company sponsors an affiliated dual career program to support a member of the couple with employment or training opportunities abroad when they follow their partners in an international move. The standard covers all dual career employees, including same-sex partners. Parental Leave Policy We have had a global Parental Leave Policy since 2008 that sets a minimum paid leave of 12 weeks for the primary caregiver (including adoption) in every country in which we operate and includes support for returning parents. Empowering Women in Technology Schlumberger participates in several internal and external initiatives to support women at Schlumberger and, more broadly, womenﾕs careers in technology. In 2020, we supported the Womenﾕs Global Leadership Conference in Energy through sponsorship and a range of speakers. We also had a strong recruiting presence at the virtual career fair in the summer of 2020. In the United States, 53% of attendees were women at our 2020 virtual field camp where students enjoyed an insight into field-life through an event hosted by our Recruiting team. Age Diversity Ongoing changes in the composition of our workforce require an adaptive approach toward recruitment, retention, and the mobility of our employees. We value the perspectives and the breadth of experience of all our employees regardless of age, and Schlumberger is dedicated to supporting employees  in their growth journeys at every step of their career through continuous learning and knowledge sharing. Diversity and Inclusion Training Schlumberger employees are expected to treat one another professionally, based on mutual respect, trust, and individual dignity. They must also display respect when interacting with customers, contractors, and others affected  by our operations, including members of local communities. Schlumberger does not tolerate any form of harassment or other offensive action. During 2020, we maintained more than 95% compliance for our Respect in the  Workplace training. In 2020, we updated and globally rolled out our specialized diversity and  inclusion training for Human Resources professionals. The HR function  comprises important influencers at the local level, helping to create an  inclusive culture to stimulate the conversation about diversity and inclusion. Learning and Development As Schlumberger is a technology company, our success is determined by our people, their technical expertise, and their drive to continuously strive for excellence. Since our early days, Schlumberger has consistently invested in training and development, while continually cultivating our learning mindset to adapt to a changing world and evolving technologies. The challenges of 2020 did not halt the growth of our employees; rather, by using technology and evolving our capabilities, we enabled our employees to continue their career growth, advance their skills, and continuously learn. Learning opportunities are available to all full- and part-time employees and contractors around the world. They are delivered through classroom-based and virtual instruction, live simulations at learning centers, self-paced  learning using the latest interactive technologies, and on-the-job education. We are continuously investing in learning technologies and ecosystems to expand access to learning to all our employees. Development opportunities include coaching, mentoring, and cross-training through career mobility to expose employees to new roles, geographies,  business lines, and functions. All employees are encouraged to take an  active role in their learning journey and to be continuous learners. They  prepare annual training and development plans with their managers and agree on specific actions for the year. Employees are also evaluated on ﾒself-developmentﾓ during their annual appraisal, which is part of our  Commitment Mindset from our Code of Conduct. Our goals are to foster collaboration between employees and the company and create value for employees by enabling them to maintain their current skills while developing their talents to reach their full potential. We also offer several internships for students, and many of our employees started with Schlumberger this way. Interns generally progress through  a period of intensive off-the-job technical training or receive on-the-job  training interspersed with formal seminars. In 2020, we provided 231 internships to students from top universities around the world. HSE Training HSE training continues to be a top priority at Schlumberger. For many topics, we use a learner-centered training approach that encourages active  participation and incorporates a combination of microlearning videos, group discussions, virtual reality, and role play. Employees also have access to an online platform for interactive training that uses self-study and assessments to help them fulfill their required certifications. Throughout their careers, employees are assigned training, recertification, or refresher training based on their specific roles and responsibilities, work environment, geographic location, and activity risks. Additional details about our HSE training programs are in the section of this report titled ﾒHealth and Safetyﾓ on p. 47. Employee Development Consistent with our commitment to internal promotion, we strive to identify top talent within Schlumberger, and to provide opportunities for employees who demonstrate exceptional competency and performance to progress to ever higher levels of responsibility within the company. We seek to nurture our talent pool to maximize each employeeﾕs development potential through  a combination of training and experience. Throughout their careers, our employees benefit from opportunities to take on a variety of assignments for professional and personal growth. The company benefits by having broadly diverse and experienced teams working throughout the world with great energy and enthusiasm. This continual knowledge sharing accelerates the  development of our people and enriches our ability to serve our customers. Our ﾒborderless careerﾓ philosophy means we support flexible career paths, helping employees develop their skills across different functions, businesses, and geographies. Additionally, we provide employees with the necessary training to enable them to fulfill the requirements of their current role or position. NExT NExT, a Schlumberger company, provides capability, competency, and  professional development services for the oil and gas industry. The E&P curriculum taught by NExT includes more than 700 courses, training programs, and competency services covering technical and software skills that help attendees develop the petrotechnical expertise they need to meet complex industry challenges. NExT has access to more than 3,000 instructors, whose collective expertise includes every E&P discipline. NExT delivered more than 1,250 training sessions in 2020 and has trained more than 70,000 E&P  professionals worldwide. Learning Centers Our global network of learning centers is primarily designed to deliver our technical programs. Our learning facilities include classrooms, wells, rigs,  and workshops, and use emerging technologies such as virtual reality.  The courses are delivered both in person and virtually by Schlumberger  instructors, who have gained their expertise through practice and experience in operations roles. New trainees follow a fixed-step training program  that lasts three to five years. During this period, they attend or remotely  access multiple courses at the learning centers that last from a few days  to 12 weeks. The learning centers also host a range of classes including employee onboarding, as well as technical, safety, personal development, business, and managerial courses. In 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to reduce travel for training purposes, thousands of employees were enrolled in our virtual learning programs instead. Trainees were enrolled in our COVID-19 Protection Plan that enabled them to progress their training virtually while working from home. Those employees assigned to new positions were also able to access virtual instructor-led training, online modules, and facilitated networking, accelerating their time to performance. Traditional courses have evolved  as we permanently integrate virtual offerings into our structured learning  programs, and despite the COVID-19 pandemic, in 2020 we completed  more than 187,350 in-person and virtual training days across our global  learning centers. University Collaborations Since 1954, Schlumberger has engaged with universities and colleges around the world to help develop technical leaders, contribute to innovations and research in engineering and energy technology, and resolve challenges facing the energy sector. Our university collaborations focus on digitalization, the energy transition, the development of adaptive business models, artificial  intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), cybersecurity, and virtual reality.  Projects include developing technologies to lower artificial lifting cost, increase efficiency in exploration, improve the cost effectiveness of well construction, and reduce the emissions footprint of oil and gas extraction operations. Our university engagement initiatives play a key role in our recruiting and sustainability strategies. Through these collaborations, we support education and research in STEM subjects, and we attract talented graduates of local universities from the countries in which we work. We also select certain  institutions for our University Ambassador Program, through which we assign a senior-level Schlumberger manager as an ﾒAmbassadorﾓ to an institution targeted for recruiting, research, community outreach, and technology  transfer opportunities. In 2020, we received approximately 108,000 job  applications and recruited across 58 countries and 363 universities,  encompassing more than 67 disciplines. In addition, Schlumberger leaders serve on university boards around the world. Our representatives also serve on advisory boards, departmental industry affiliatesﾕ committees, and student project committees at the  undergraduate and graduate levels. As of December 31, 2020, 20  Schlumberger senior leaders sat on advisory boards at 13 universities. Partnership with T四残om Paris   Schlumberger continues to expand its AI collaboration with T四残om Paris university in France. The Schlumberger Clamart AI Lab, together with  other partners, established the NoRDF Project with the goal to generate disruptive technologies around natural language modeling and extracting complex information from text. Schlumberger also sponsored the 2020  International Collegiate Programming Contest hosted by T四残om Paris  and ツole Polytechnique, involving 80 teams of three participants each.  Conference attendees also voted Schlumbergerﾕs digital initiatives presentation to all students in November 2020 as the best industry presentation of the year. Collaboration with Norwegian University of Science and Technology Our Norway Technology Center continued its five-year collaboration with  the Department of Geoscience and Petroleum at Norwegian University  of Science and Technology (NTNU). Our innovation project focuses on  optimizing an integrated workflow of reservoir characterization, modeling, and completion while drilling, with an aim to develop new integrated digital tools and workflows. Together with supporting postdoctoral positions, this collaboration also maintains the server for the Petroleum Cybernetics Group at NTNU. Support of the ESIEE Paris Clean Room ESIEE Paris, a graduate school of engineering specializing in electronics, microelectronics, and computer sciences, has hosted Schlumberger activities in their 650-m2 clean room for more than 20 years. Schlumberger and ESIEE Paris continued this partnership in 2020, enabling continued development and fabrication of sensing element chips. In 2020, Schlumberger joined with other industrial users of the ESIEE clean room in discussing common technical interests and promoting potential collaborations. Partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology We conducted several projects in partnership with the Massachusetts  Institute of Technology (MIT), despite pandemic-related challenges.  We sponsored two six-month capstone projects with students from the  MBA program in business analytics at the Sloan School of Management.  The projects developed advanced techniques in uncertainty quantification for ML-based petrophysical interpretation and use of deep reinforcement learning for automating parameter selection in wellbore data processing. Additionally, we sponsored a postdoctorate project with the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics to develop a proof of concept in use of Bayesian inference using transport maps for critical tasks that arise in the Wireline 4.0 road map, as well as two masterﾕs degree projects with the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Center for Ocean Engineering on the use of proxy robots for underwater perception. We also continued our sponsorship of the CSAIL Alliances program, benefiting from close access to the research advances being made within the wide domain of AI and ML, as well as from focused collaborations with the CSAIL faculty members.  Partnership with Harvard University Our active collaboration with Harvard University continued in 2020 even during the height of the pandemic. The US Department of Energyﾕs Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) has funded a joint project  between Harvard and the Schlumberger Doll Research Center (SDR) on  the development of miniaturized nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)  technology as a multiyear collaboration. Through this project, SDR hosted two postdoctoral scholars and donated NMR equipment to Harvard. Harvard is a strategic collaborator, and a number of SDR scientists have an ongoing affiliation with Harvard as visiting scientists or associates. Compensation Arrangements As part of our total compensation package, we systematically offer non-cash benefits related to life and accident insurance, short and long-term disability coverage and retirement savings plans to part-time and full-time employees. All Schlumberger employees globally are also eligible to receive awards  under Schlumbergerﾕs equity stock plans, in the sole discretion of the Boardﾕs Compensation Committee, as described in our 2021 Proxy Statement (p. 70 and B-2). Schlumberger employees are encouraged to freely discuss their occupational interests with management, including the right to collective bargaining, in good faith and in accordance with local laws. Schlumberger actively participates in collective bargaining agreements with employees in several countries. EDUCATION We believe that contributing to the social development of communities through the active educational advancement of young people, especially girls, marginalized people, and underrepresented groups, is fundamental to driving better performance for all of our stakeholders. Our global educational programs support the UN SDG 4, Quality Education, focused on ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning  opportunities for all. Our programs offer Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) learning opportunities for young people, help students understand and adopt HSE-related standards, and fund women from lower-middle- and low-income economies to pursue advanced graduate  studies in STEM subjects at top universities worldwide. Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development Founded in 1998, the Schlumberger Excellence in Education Development (SEED) program encompasses a range of STEM-related activities including school workshops, professional development for STEM teachers, coding clubs, competitions, facility tours, and classroom connectivity. Together  with local educators, Schlumberger volunteers around the world share their  passion for learning and science with young people, encouraging them to learn more about STEM subjects through inquiry-based learning and hands-on science experiments. Worldwide, more than 100,000 students participated more than 1,400 SEED events in 2020. In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic acted as a catalyst to shift the way young people learn, and consequently, the way we deliver the SEED program. In Russia and Central Asia, 200 volunteers began supporting distance learning solutions, offering remote mentoring and online educational resources.  This newly adopted virtual learning format enabled us to partner with key customers to successfully complete 51 virtual workshops for more than  9,000 school children in five countries. We also further strengthened our global SEED strategy to focus on developing shared values with the  communities where we live and workﾑfor example, by encouraging young people to use STEM learnings to create a more sustainable future, improving talent and increasing diversity in our local hiring pools, and narrowing the gender imbalance in the energy industry. Our Theory of Change Our theory of change articulates how STEM activities are expected to ignite change in young people and their communities. It serves as our goals for operationalizing SEED programs. ･ Learning by Doing ﾐ Deliver active, inquiry-based learning, structured around local problems to enable social change through innovation  and action ･ Transformation ﾐ Use STEM activities to build the capacity of local  educators, young people, and communities ･ Involvement ﾐ Lead from below and rely on the passion and expertise  of our employee volunteers to drive programs ･ Relevance ﾐ Establish partnerships to provide insights on local needs, resources, and systems to further support efforts SEED 2020 Number of Engagements 1,416 Students Involved 102,884 Teachers Participating 2,264 Schlumberger Employee Volunteers 359 Faculty for the Future Faculty for the Future, the flagship program of the Schlumberger Foundation, awards fellowships to women from developing economies to pursue  advanced graduate studies in STEM subjects at leading research institutes abroad. The programﾕs mission is to accelerate gender equality in STEM and alleviate barriers to womenﾕs participation in STEM disciplines. The programﾕs commitment to gender parity in science aligns with SDG 4, quality education, and SDG 5, gender equality, in recognition that full access to and participation in STEM fields is essential for the empowerment of women and girls. Since the programﾕs launch in 2004, a total of 721 women from 80 countries have received Faculty for the Future fellowships to pursue PhD and postdoctorate STEM research programs at 276 universities and research institutions around the world. In 2020, the Schlumberger Foundation awarded 38 new fellowships and renewed 93 fellowships. Faculty for the Future Fellows are expected to return to their home countries upon completion of their studies to contribute to the economic, social, and technological advancement of their home regions. Today, Faculty for the Future alumnae are strengthening the STEM teaching and research faculties of their home countriesﾕ institutions and also serving their communities through their leadership in science-based entrepreneurship and public sector service. In addition to the financial support provided to these women, Faculty for the Future hosts in-person forums where fellows and alumnae meet to share their experiences and help foster an international community of women leaders in STEM. Each grant recipient is offered the opportunity of attending one of these forums during her research program. Participants meet and engage with distinguished scientists and listen to accomplished leaders share their insights. Through knowledge-sharing sessions and panel discussions, participants learn skills and techniques to raise their visibility and improve their chance of successfully influencing their community. In 2020, there  were no forums due to the challenges as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Forums are expected to resume in November 2021. Faculty for the Future by the numbers 2020 New Fellowships Awarded in 2020 38 Fellowships Renewed in 2020 93 Alumnaeﾕs Home Countries 80 Total Fellows and Alumnae Since 2004 721 Host Universities and Research Institutions 276 HSE For Youth Schlumberger is committed to promoting HSE learning for children, in order to pass down our HSE leadership and experience to the next generation of Schlumberger families, customers, and communities. Since 2009, our  employees have shared their expertise through our HSE for Youth programs, trainings, and modules covering first aid, Internet safety, injury prevention, climate change, water sanitation, road safety, personal security, and  prevention of HIV/AIDS, malaria, and Ebola. We aim to inform and empower young people to make responsible and safer decisions regarding health,  safety, and environmental issues. In 2020, more than 2,400 young people participated in 1,110 HSE for Youth workshops held across 58 countries. The overwhelming majority of those were virtual workshops developed to address the COVID-19 pandemic and provide participating students with information about the virus and how to keep themselves and others safe. Through an app and video conferencing capabilities, our volunteers engaged with students on topics like physical distancing, washing hands, and how to look after each other at home during lockdowns. Adopting a virtual learning model enabled parents and facilitators to engage with children safely without needing to meet in person. HSE for Youth by the Numbers Topics Number of workshops by topic covered COVID-19 1,092 Climate Change and Environment Internet Safety Injury Prevention Road Safety Malaria Personal Security First Aid Total 1,110 Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report Our Human Rights Focus Areas We have identified five key human rights focus areas relevant to our global operations, as reflected in the below chart. We believe these focus areas cover Schlumbergerﾕs salient human rights issues, as defined in the  UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. We have identified five key human rights areas relevant to our global operations Workplace ･ Decent work ･Nondiscrimination We recognize the relevance of the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights ･ Gender balance We adhere to international standards including: ･Safe working conditions ･ International Bill of Rights ･Grievance mechanisms ･ OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Local Communities ･ Economic and social disruption ･ Eight Fundamental Conventions on the  ･ Water International Labour Organization (ILO) ･Cumulative impacts ･ Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Indigenous Peoples ･ Recognition of rights ･ Voluntary Principles on Security and  ･Respectful interactions Human Rights. Security Arrangements ･ Employee safety in high-risk environments ･ Use of force by security providers ･ Decent work for those in security Supply Chains ･ Decent work ･ Prevention of modern slavery ･Safe working conditions ･ Avoidance of conflict materials In the Workplace Schlumbergerﾕs Working Conditions Requirements, first published in 2005  and updated in 2019, promote a respect for the rights and welfare of our employees and those working within our supply chain. The Requirements  set out nine principles to assist our operations and suppliers in reviewing performance in the area of human rights in the workplace: ･ Employment is freely chosen ･ Child labor shall not be used ･ No discrimination is practiced ･ Freedom of association is respected ･ No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed ･ Fair wages are paid ･ Working conditions are safe and hygienic ･ No worker should pay a fee for a job ･ Complaints and feedback systems for workers are in place. Beyond applicable legal and regulatory requirements, the Requirements  provide a common baseline for the expected treatment of employees,  contractors, temporary workers, trainee workers, migrant workers, and  foreign contracted workers. We expect contractors, suppliers, and agents  to respect human rights in the workplace and comply with the Requirements, consistent with our expectations for our own workplaces. Gender Identity and Sexual Orientation The mission of Schlumbergerﾕs LGBT+Allies Employee Resource Group is to foster  a culture in which all people, including those who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual,  transgender, or nonbinary, are respected as equals, celebrated as individuals, and  free to be their whole selves at work and beyond. In addition, Schlumberger obeys the employment laws of the countries in which it operates and does not engage in discrimination based on race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, ethnicity, disability, religion, union membership, or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as promotions, rewards, and access to training. We have in place an online portal and a 24-hour EthicsLine system for receiving grievances, as outlined in our Code of Conduct, enabling anonymous reporting by anyone inside or outside the organizationﾑavailable in 150+ languages. Local Communities We respect the rights of local communities and work with our customers to create shared values and to align roles and responsibilities on human rights issues. Recognizing that all direct community interfacing is typically the responsibility of the customer, we are nevertheless committed to identifying, preventing, mitigating, and resolving social risks and impacts, optimizing employment and contracting opportunities in the communities where we operate, and ensuring that community concerns, issues, or problems are  taken seriously. We identify, assess, and manage potential impacts and risks to local  communities using two key processes. First, through our Social Risk  Assessment process, we collect information during initial planning phases, analyze social hazards in terms of risks to people and projects, and then develop appropriate responses for use in the implementation, monitoring,  and evaluation phases. In addition, in our projects with a large social  footprint, we implement our Social and Environmental Management Standard, which recognizes the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability as a key point of reference. Our standard provides a framework for managing our local impacts and maintaining respect for the rights of individuals and groups in local communities and provides specific guidance in key technical areas. Areas Covered by the Social and Environmental Management Standard ･ Social ･ Community Relations ･ Management of Nuisance ･ Local Content ･ Social Investment ･ Indigenous Peoples and Cultural Heritage ･ Land Acquisition and Land Access ･ Environmental ･ Waste Management ･ Water Resource Management ･ Management of Greenhouse Gases and Air Emissions ･ Environmental Emergency Management ･ Land and Biodiversity Management ･ Hazardous Materials Management Stakeholder Engagement in Ecuador The Schlumberger team in Ecuador, in collaboration with our customers, engaged  with local authorities and indigenous community leaders to better understand the  social impacts of COVID-19 in our area of operations. Following these discussions, Schlumberger began having community representatives monitor effective  implementation of COVID-19 site management protocols at work sites and organizing donations of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to hospitals, local health authorities, and communities more broadly. In 2020, following the issuance of our COVID-19 Management Standard, we prepared an appendix to this standard setting out recommended community relations actions for Schlumbergerﾕs local operations teams in response to the pandemic. Recognizing that the COVID-19 pandemic has had significant, complex, and lasting impacts on many of the communities where we live and work, local teams in Ecuador, Colombia, Mexico, Nigeria, and India completed rapid risk assessments to understand how they could best support community stakeholders in planning, responding to, and recovering from the impacts of the pandemic. Indigenous Peoples Schlumberger recognizes the rights of distinct peoples living in distinct  regions to self-determined development and control of ancestral lands.  We look to build strong relationships, respect, and opportunities between Schlumberger and the communities where energy activities are undertaken on lands traditionally owned by or under customary use of indigenous peoples. Schlumberger was one of the first energy services companies in Australia  to develop a Reconciliation Action Plan to develop and strengthen relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples of Australia. In 2020, Schlumbergerﾕs Canada team, building on its existing Indigenous Relations Policy and Indigenous Engagement Leadership Statement, were recognized as PAR committed in the Progressive Aboriginal Relations certification program that confirms corporate performance in Aboriginal relations. Supporting Indigenous Students in Canada Indigenous people are major stakeholders in the energy industry in Canada. In order to reach students early so that they can succeed in our industry, Schlumberger partners with the Literacy for Life Foundation to deliver literacy and reading programs in  44 schools across 17 communities, reaching out to more than 6,000 students in 2020, including 1,825 First Nations students. Supply Chain Schlumberger endeavors to work with suppliers that conduct business in a professional, ethical, socially responsible, and cost-effective manner  consistent with our policies, procedures, and business objectives. We require that our  suppliers, contractors, and labor agents comply with the laws of the countries in which they operate, or with industry guidelines where they exist and are more stringent than local law. Consistent with our recognition of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP), we are actively working to incorporate human rights due diligence within our supply chains. We prohibit any use or contracting, directly or indirectly, of child labor, forced labor, human trafficking, or any  form of slavery and are committed to continuously improving the labor  standards performance of our suppliers. In addition, through our human  rights program and by actively engaging with our suppliers, we seek to influence the productivity of each of our suppliersﾕ workforces in recognition of the ways that substandard working conditions can lead to poor safety performance and poor business outcomes. Since 2018, Schlumbergerﾕs cross-functional human rights working group, supported by senior leadership and consisting of representatives from the legal, supply chain, human resources, HSE, and sustainability functions, has overseen our efforts to identify and prevent exploitative work practices and modern slavery in our operations, value chain, and business relationships. In addition, Schlumbergerﾕs Human Rights Position Statement addresses human rights in the supply chain as a salient issue.  In 2020, we used the findings of a high-level human rights risk assessment of our global supply chain to improve our risk identification and assessment processes, including by launching a pilot project in four regions to assess our approach and standardize how we screen higher-risk suppliers. Other key supplier-related human rights activities included: ･ Creating a dedicated role in our planning and supply chain organization  to strengthen management and oversight of our sustainable supply  chain program ･ Developing a company-wide human rights training plan ･ Updating our website with additional guidance for Schlumberger suppliers regarding, among other things, respect for human rights ･ Integrating human rights moments into supplier performance reviews and supplier forums to better communicate our expectations on human rights ･ Requiring our global staffing and recruitment agencies to complete an  industry-standard human rights due diligence self-assessment questionnaire ･ Refreshing our compliance audit tool for remote and onsite core audits, in line with our procedures as well as guidance relating to on-site labor assessments from IPIECA ･ Developing an internal compliance audit tool for onsite self-assessments  of Schlumberger facilities, piloted in Brazil, to identify specific indicators  of human rights risk ･ Establishing an anti-human trafficking working group in North America  to increase awareness of the issues and mobilize employees to combat human trafficking. Security Arrangements Due to the nature of our global business, sometimes we operate in dangerous areas. Our employees, their families, contractors, third parties, and our company assets may be exposed to security-related threats, including armed conflict, criminality, and civil unrest. Schlumberger puts in place security arrangements that are appropriate under the circumstances to protect people and assets in a manner respecting human rights and that are consistent with applicable laws and international standards, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Where appropriate, we apply IPIECA guidance for operating in areas of conflict. We conduct assessments on threats and vulnerabilities in each country where we operate. Our objective is to reduce security risks to a level deemed  ﾒas low as reasonably practicableﾓ through effective implementation of fundamental and risk-based controls and active continuous monitoring of security conditions. In line with our Personnel and Asset Security Standard, our security risk evaluation process identifies security risks, the potential for violence in each operational location, and available human rights records  of public and private security providers, paramilitaries, and law enforcement agencies. All security providers retained by Schlumberger are required to adhere to our Code of Conduct, and we conduct periodic audits to verify  compliance with our policies and procedures. Schlumberger TimelineﾑHuman Rights Efforts 2005   Developed guidelines related to working conditions and eligibility for supply chain contractors.  2009   Established social risk management process and began conducting social risk assessments for large-footprint projects in sensitive operating environments.  2010   Reviewed 400 statements of company policy and standards against guidance from the Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights.  2011   Completed a review of customer and peer human rights statements and  policies to improve our understanding of the UN Protect, Respect, and  Remedy Framework. 2013   Introduced a new Social and Environmental Management Standard that  recognizes International Finance Corporation Performance Standards as  a key point of reference for our large-footprint projects.  2014   Revised our Personnel and Asset Security Standard to incorporate references  to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.  2015   Initiated alignment of our Sustainability program with the United Nations SDG 2017   Became an associate member of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry  association for environmental and social issues, the first oilfield services  company to do so.  2018   Published Schlumberger Human Rights Position Statement.  2019   Commissioned a research consultancy to assess the risk of modern slavery  and labor exploitation in our supply chain. 2020   Established an anti-human trafficking working group in North America. Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report We have a global network of health professionals who provide medical  support at our operational locations. Each of our operating locations has  a specific preventive training program with a focus on health and industrial  hygiene, and each program is adapted to the working environment and location. Before new operations begin, and regularly thereafter, employees undergo medical checks and health-risk assessments. COVID-19 Response With the COVID-19 pandemic at the forefront of decisions made in 2020  and 2021, Schlumberger demonstrated global efforts focused on putting  people and safety at the center of everything we doﾑa representation  of sustainability in action. Because we had identified pandemics as one of  our enterprise-level risks prior to the outbreak of COVID-19, we were able  to take a proactive approach to our responseﾑquickly implementing a  comprehensive outbreak management plan and adapting our work practices. Our approach does not stop at the site or the office doorﾑour initiatives  also contributed to the safety of the people in the communities where we  live and work. Additional details about our COVID-19 response procedures and actions are in the section of this report titled ﾒSustainability Highlight 2020: COVID-19 Responseﾓ (p. 4). Workplace Well-being and Mindfulness In 2020, Schlumberger expanded its wellness and employee assistance programs. These programs provide employees and their family members with well-being articles, podcasts, toolkits, and access to experts and resources in key life areas including relationships, managing anxiety, and finding help with care for children or elderly relatives. Schlumberger volunteers also founded a Workplace Wellbeing & Mindfulness special interest group in 2020, sponsored by senior management and co-led by our Global Health Advisor. Throughout the year, the group offered nine global webinars on topics including well-being, mindfulness, and emotional  intelligence, which gathered more than 2,200 participants. They also  organized 15 weekly mindfulness sessions with activities such as yoga,  meditation, and journaling, which were open to all employees and their  families and were led by company volunteers, certified yoga instructors  or practitioners, and external teachers. Health Campaigns In 2020, many of our ongoing health campaigns transitioned to virtual events and activities that our personnel could participate from home. Examples of regional health campaigns covering a variety of health and well-being related subjects include: ･ In the Russia & Central Asia Basin, local teams held 138 safety meetings covering health-related topics such as fatigue management, healthy  nutrition, staying active and developing new interests and skills using  books and online learning. ･ In Malaysia, a licensed counselor from a health care partner presented  four webinars broadcast to approximately 400 attendees on the subjects  of self-care and well-being when working from home. Approximately  250 personnel participated in a Move for Mental Health challenge to  mark World Mental Health Day. ･ In Singapore, a wellness webinar was held for personnel working from home, approximately 400 people participated in our 25-day health and well-being challenge, and the local HSE team deployed nutritional health nudges in our manufacturing facilities. ･ In the United Kingdom, our team developed a well-being app and a mental health first aid program. ･ In Norway, Schlumberger team members conducted two 8-week activity campaigns with 77 teams completing more than 20,000 exercise sessions. In addition, we targeted well-being campaigns to our offshore workforce. ･ In Egypt, campaigns were run on breast cancer awareness and the seasonal flu, and health checkups were conducted in collaboration with the Ministry of Health. ･ In Oman and Africa, our teams initiated virtual heart healthy campaigns. Schlumberger Active Campaigns Schlumberger has initiated a series of health campaigns to encourage  employees to be more physically active. For example, our Active campaign  encourage employees to track and share their fitness-related activities through an internal Schlumberger app. The app includes a leader board with recognition badges to incentivize employee engagement through friendly  and healthy competition. Employees are also encouraged to share stories  and pictures of their activities on an internal social networking platform.  The app is used in more than 60 countries across all continents, with more than 5,000 Active app unique users worldwide. Although the Active campaigns were primarily focused on health, they also encouraged our team members to be more actively engaged in all aspects  of HSE. In 2020, the Active app was used to provide employees with  appropriate information and recommendations on how to stay well and  active when working from home ﾑsuch as by providing videos of wellness techniques and home workouts for a range of fitness levels. The use  of innovative technology solutions has encouraged personnel to access  other HSE-related apps more actively, and the teamwork aspects of these campaigns have led to a healthy competition between Schlumberger  locations regarding other aspects of HSE. Safety Shared Responsibility for Safety Schlumberger maintains a safe and productive work environment free from  alcohol, controlled substances, and illegal drugs. We design our equipment and workplaces to enable safe operations and we provide comprehensive training in injury prevention, driving safety, hazard identification, and risk  assessment and management. We require comprehensive reporting of hazardous situations and conditions to identify opportunities for improvement and remedial actions to prevent recurrence. Within Schlumberger, all employees and contractors are authorized, empowered, and required to  intervene and stop any job if they consider a situation to be unsafeﾑa  practice fully supported by company management. HSE Management System The Schlumberger HSE Management System sets forth the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide regarding HSE and security. Schlumberger management communicates our global QHSE Policy, as well  as our HSE philosophy, priorities, objectives, and requirements, to all  employees, customers, contractors, and third parties associated with our business. Our global HSE standards are implemented in all our operations  and comprehensively assessed to assure compliance. We require each Schlumberger geography, business line and function to provide positive  evidence of conformance to our HSE Management System. Our HSE Management System model comprises eight interrelated elements, reflected on the diagram below. We work to continually improve upon our HSE outcomes through: ･ Regular conformance checks on day-to-day standards and procedures (referred to in the diagram at left as ﾒcontrolﾓ) ･ Conformance checks on the management system as a whole (referred  to in the diagram at left as ﾒcorrectionﾓ) ･ As needed, appropriate modifications to the management system (referred to in the diagram at left as ﾒimprovementﾓ). Our QHSE Management System comprised 27 global standards, which we  require be implemented at all Schlumberger operations and facilities,  regardless of whether a particular operating location or facility has chosen  to commit to third-party certification, such as the ISO, American Petroleum  Institute (API), or Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) standards. Additional details regarding our systemﾕs alignment to third-party standards and certifications can be found on p. 26 of this report. Schlumbergerﾕs HSE Management System uses a risk-based approach, which enables us to focus resources on the geographic locations, activities, and services that present a higher risk to the company, our personnel, and our  customers. Our risk-based strategy also enables us to develop focused, concise HSE standards that are easily read, understood, and monitored for effectiveness and compliance. Each risk-based HSE standard contains the following items: ･ Statement of intent ･ Objective of the standard ･ Scope of application ･ Requirements for implementation of controls ･ Clear statements of responsibility for the management of the subject matter ･ Performance monitoring criteria for performance and compliance. Our risk-based approach involves setting prescribed control measures that apply at all Schlumberger sites and to all of our activities and employees, as well as to contractors under our operational control. Schlumbergerﾕs HSE function has developed specific strategies for our risk-based HSE standards, covering both the fundamental controls that apply globally throughout all company activities without variation, and certain risk-based controlsﾑassessed by country, business line, and locationﾑfor which application increases proportionally with the assessed risk. At the global level, each Schlumberger HSE standard has an assigned owner who is responsible for developing and monitoring the standard and for regularly updating it to reflect the companyﾕs commitment to continuous improvement, industry best practices, and lessons learned. Each year, Schlumberger holds a global meeting of the senior HSE managers in our geographic locations and senior corporate HSE personnel to review the Schlumberger HSE standards and emerging regulatory changes to reflect both internal and external updated HSE best practices. This annual HSE management review is focused on identifying opportunities for improvement both in our HSE Management System and in HSE performance. We also set annual performance and improvement objectives (including leading and lagging performance indicators), review existing HSE standards, and develop new HSE standards, personnel engagement initiatives, and campaigns for the year. In 2020, we revised the following global HSE standards: HSE Event Reporting and Management; PPE; Business Continuity, Emergency and Crisis Management; HSE Training; Training and Competency ﾐ Operations System; Auditing; Environmental Management; Schlumberger Empowerment Teams; Management of Change and Exemption; Contractor Management; Hydrogen Sulfide; Fire Prevention and Mitigation; Injury Prevention; Radiation; Explosives; Well Integrity; Chemical; and Electrical Safety. We also developed two new global standards in 2020: Lithium Battery and COVID-19 Management. Independent Assessments Schlumbergerﾕs corporate and support functionsﾕ management system,  procedures, and processes have undergone a review and independent assessment to verify the systemﾕs alignment with ISO 9001:2015, API Spec Q2 1st edition, and API Spec Q1 9th edition specifications. In addition, seven business lines conducted a similar global exercise during the six-year period ending in 2020, and received certificates indicating their specific processes, procedures, and appendices to the global Schlumberger standards were aligned with the ISO 9001:2015 and API Spec Q2 standards. Our global Environmental Standard been evaluated against the requirements of ISO 14001:2015 on a clause-by-clause basis, and an independent certifying authority has provided a letter of assurance verifying alignment. The  standard has also been independently assessed to determine alignment with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Environmental Performance Standards (2012 edition), and a statement of assurance was provided for alignment with IFC Performance Standard 1, Assessment and Management  of Environmental and Social Risks and Impacts; IFC Performance Standard 3, Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention; and IFC Performance  Standard 6, Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources. Leadership Commitment Foundational to the Schlumberger HSE Management System is a commitment by our leadership team to invest in and promote HSE initiatives, programs, and the system as a whole and to personally demonstrate HSE excellence. Managers at all levels of the company are responsible for maintaining a  culture of HSE excellence so that all employees see prevention of HSE  incidents and accidental losses as an integral part of their daily activities.  We expect all managers and supervisors to set a personal example of HSE excellence by actively contributing to HSE risk management, including by providing necessary resources to develop and maintain a proactive HSE  Management System throughout the organization. We also expect  Schlumberger managers to encourage the involvement of all employees  and to empower them to develop and implement appropriate solutions to HSE issues within their areas of responsibility. Examples of manager involvement in HSE, as applicable based on area of responsibility, include: ･ Participating in HSE meetings ･ Periodically visiting the field ･ Keeping personal HSE training up to date ･ Leading HSE audits, inspections, and assessments and following up on remedial action plans ･ Setting location and personal HSE objectives ･ Reviewing performance indicators ･ Reviewing HSE reports and following up on the closure of action items ･ Participating in and reviewing investigation of accidents ･ Administering reward programs ･ Reviewing driving performance reports. At Schlumberger, each geographical area has a dedicated HSE Manager,  HSE Training and Communications Coordinator, and Injury Prevention  Coordinator, along with a team of additional HSE personnel to support their operations. These regional teams are supported by a core group of HSE  subject matter experts at the corporate level. In some cases these experts are based within certain geographical areas depending on the risk and  exposure to HSE hazards, such as security specialists, driving coordinators, and health professionals. At the site level, personnel with specific subject matter roles may facilitate and support the technical implementation of our HSE standards, depending on the size, specific risks, and operational requirements of the site. A few such examples include roles focused on mechanical lifting, dropped objects, and working at height responsibilities. Within Schlumberger, all employees and contractors are authorized, empowered, and required to intervene and stop any job if they consider a situation to be unsafeﾑa practice fully supported by company management. Schlumberger SAFE Our Schlumberger SAFE program encompasses a series of strategic HSE programs, tools, and multiyear initiatives that reinforce our unified, global approach to our organizationﾕs HSE commitment. We designed this program based on the four pillars of our global HSE strategy: Leadership, Employee Engagement, Training and Reporting, and Compliance. Since the programﾕs launch in 2017, we have focused on making our HSE emphasis personal, engaging, and fun through innovative training and communication  methodologies. This campaign has already delivered meaningful results, including helping to reduce the frequency of total recordable injuries and  automotive accidents, as well as other improvements in leading HSE indicators. Examples of Schlumberger SAFE initiatives include: ･ personal HSE leading indicator dashboards and scorecards with metrics such as proactive HSE reporting, HSE leadership engagements, and field HSE visits ･ global safety improvement campaigns that use innovative communication techniques, such as internal social media channels, infographics, and  personal interactions based on a facilitated learner-centered approach ･ development of company mobile apps for proactive HSE risk identification reporting and observation and intervention reporting ･ revitalized HSE training for new personnel, supervisors, and managers  that uses a variety of modern learning techniques ･ implementation of improved processes for monitoring and increasing  compliance with company requirements ･ a wide range of recognition programs based on Schlumberger SAFE  campaigns for individuals, teams, locations, and geographic initiatives  and improvements. We have also used Schlumberger SAFE Forums to introduce supervisors  and managers to our latest HSE programs and campaigns through a set of  interactive exhibits that can be easily assembled at any Schlumberger location. For remote locations, we have also deployed a truck outfitted with a mobile version of the Schlumberger SAFE Forum to give personnel working in field locations the opportunity to experience in person our latest company HSE initiatives. One Schlumberger SAFE Forum was held in early 2020 prior  to the widespread outbreak of COVID-19. We have transitioned to using  virtual tools to disseminate new resources, updates, and engagement  materials as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Schlumberger Empowerment Teams Schlumberger Empowerment Teams (SETs) are action-oriented teams  implemented to identify, eliminate, or reduce workplace risk at the location level. The teams bring together local employees, line management, and HSE professionals in a cooperative effort to strengthen personnel engagement with and improvement of HSE performance by focusing on local initiatives. All company locations are covered by a SET, and each location with more than 50 assigned people is required to have its own dedicated SET. Each SET has an assigned leader and six to 15 members, depending on the number of personnel at the location, and comprises a cross-section of our workforce with representation from our business lines and functions, as well as various levels of seniority and authority. SET membership is also required in  Schlumbergerﾕs career development program for non-HSE disciplines. Each member of a SET focuses on one of three areas at a timeﾑengagement, situational insight, and complianceﾑand then rotates focus areas every four months so that all SET members develop skills in all three focus areas. SET leaders also receive additional training in HSE and facilitation techniques. Each SET identifies location-specific HSE issues, provides solutions and  best practices, and assists with the implementation of company-wide HSE recognition programs. For example, the global SET network was critical to the successful rollout of our COVID Life-Saving Rules campaign in 2020. Each SET also develops an annual improvement plan with specific HSE improvement objectives and a budget to support the implementation of its activities for  the location. Local SETs have implemented a variety of initiatives and  projects related to driving, environment, health, injury prevention, security, communications, and family and community outreach. Schlumberger recognizes SET achievements through a global award program, with awards  for the best SET, best SET leader,  and special categories such as injury prevention, driving, security, environment, and health initiatives. The initiatives are judged on criteria such as innovation and improvement impact. IOGP Life-Saving Rules From our CEO and executive leadership to our frontline workforce, the Schlumberger team is committed to achieving and sustaining our goal of having fatality-free operations. A key focus of this goal is  on compliance with the International  Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) Life-Saving Rules, which  Schlumberger actively participated in developing. In 2020, more than  98.3% of all Schlumberger field personnel completed training on the Life-Saving Rules, which training is required of all nonoffice personnel.  In addition, the Life-Saving Rules have been incorporated into our new employee and new contractor safety training packages, and an e-learning package is available for refresher training. COVID-19 Life-Saving Rules In 2020, we developed a specific set of COVID-19 Life-Saving Rules using the principles of the IOGP Life-Saving Rules. We rolled out the COVID-19 Life-Saving Rules across our global organization and supported the campaign through monthly initiatives, including personal video messages recorded by our CEO and other members of executive leadership team.  All employees were required to complete an online training module on the COVID-19 Life Saving Rules following the roll-out. In record-breaking time, more than 89,000 employees and contractors completed their certifications, including more than half our workforce in just eight days and approximately 90% of our workforce in less than one month. To materialize the learning  and turn it into engagement, we followed the initial campaign with a global contest in which all employees were invited to showcase the best examples of practical application of the COVID-19 Life Saving Rules. Teams from around the world participated with more than 100 videos, photos and messages demonstrating the endless creativity and resilience of the Schlumberger workforce during the pandemic. The campaign recognized the locations that displayed the best personalization and engagement with the COVID-19 Life-Saving Rules. We shared our COVID-19 Life-Saving Rules initiative with our customers and contractors as well as the wider oil and gas industry at conferences and through participation in industry trade association meetings and forums, such as with IOGP, IPIECA, and the Regional Association of Oil, Gas and Biofuels Sector Companies in Latin America and the Caribbean (ARPEL). HSE Auditing Schlumberger has implemented a global risk-based approach to our HSE auditing and inspections process, including requiring that an audit and  inspection plan be developed and documented each year. This annual plan  details the schedule of audits and inspections to be performed at each worksite and the respective areas of responsibility during the year. We use a global online dashboard to review the results of the planﾕs implementation and to monitor the completion and compliance of audits and inspections. In 2020, we recorded more than 220, 800 audits and inspections in  Schlumbergerﾕs global online QHSE business system. More than 19,400 of these were audits conducted using our global compliance audit templates, which have been developed to determine adherence to our QHSE standards. Our robust internal auditing and inspection process has been rigorously  implemented, and its performance equals or exceeds that of a third-party  certified HSE management system. Our operational locations seek certification to international standards, such as ISO, API, or OHSAS, only where there is a clear business case to do so. Fatalities Regretfully, Schlumberger suffered three work-related fatalities in 2020. Schlumbergerﾕs 2020 fatal accident rate for employees and contractors was 0.95 per 100 million workhours. Each of our work-related fatalities was thoroughly investigated and studied, remedial actions were implemented to prevent reoccurrence, and the associated lessons learned were communicated throughout the company. No work-related illness fatalities occurred at Schlumberger in 2020. Schlumberger also tracks employeesﾕ nonoccupational illness fatalities, such as deaths due to COVID-19, heart disease, and cancer, in our global online QHSE business system. These data inform our global and regional health and well-being campaigns and COVID-19 protective measures. Learning from Events Schlumbergerﾕs global HSE Event Reporting and Management Standard  details our requirements for the notification, recording, and investigation of HSE incidents and high potential events, including management reviews, remedial and preventative work plan actions, and follow-up actions to confirm effective implementation. We use our global online QHSE business system  to manage the lifecycle of an event, from classification to investigation to remedial action implementation. During 2020, more than 128,000 people used the system, with over 11 million logins registered. The system also recorded an average of 1,230 QHSE meetings per day in 2020, totaling more than 448,000 for the year, sent more than 35 million emails to approximately 108 million email recipients, and processed more than 5.8 million items including risk identification reports, meetings, audits, exemptions, management of change requests, observations, inspections, events, suggestions, and recognitions. Our personnel can search and review two decades worth  of reports and data in our QHSE business system. This yields significant  opportunities for learning from events and trends, for benchmarking, and  for the identification of emerging hazards. Schlumberger also has a process to generate concise HSE Alerts to share best practices and lessons learned from HSE events. HSE Alerts are stored in Schlumbergerﾕs HSE Communications Toolkit and are organized by hazard category, such as Life-Saving Rule, Business Line, and Geography, to help users identify relevant subject matter for organizational learning. HSE Alerts are also sent directly to employees by e-mail. HSE Alerts that we receive from customers and industry organizations are also shared on our internal HSE web portal and on internal social media groups for general HSE, subject matter, or location-specific updates to which anyone in the organization can subscribe. Where remedial workplan actions are globally applicable to our operations, they are assigned for completion to all applicable sites, with follow-up and completion tracked through our online business system. In 2020, Schlumberger introduced an Early Incident Notification system to provide a high-level event summary for both internal and external use, to promptly inform appropriate managers in the organization of  events and to provide suggested immediate actions for those who perform similar activities. Lessons learned and best practices are incorporated into our HSE standards, policies, practices, and training resources. Our goal is to promote continuous HSE learning and best practices throughout the organization and to facilitate reflective discussions at both formal safety meetings and in informal discussions among our team members, such as during pre-job safety briefings. 