Climate Action Our industry has an important role to play in the global energy transition, and Schlumberger is evolving for that exciting future. Our vision is to define and drive high performance, sustainably, sharing the responsibility to act now and to act fast to decarbonize the world’s energy system. INDEX PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Our Roadmap to Net Zero Our climate action strategy is underpinned by our commitment to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, with interim targets in 2025 and 2030 to track progress. To achieve these goals across all three scopes of emissions, we are implementing a detailed roadmap of emissions reduction actions within each Division and geography and across the short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons. Decarbonizing Operations As we work to reduce our emissions footprint across our own operations, we also have the opportunity to help our customers decarbonize their operations and avoid additional GHG emissions. New Energy & Transition Opportunities The energy transition represents an opportunity to leverage our domain and technology expertise in a changing industry landscape. Our diverse and growing portfolio of New Energy investments and technologies includes hydrogen, lithium, energy storage, CCS, geothermal power, and geoenergy for heating and cooling buildings. . . The all-electric actuator enables energy and emissions reductions by replacing traditional hydraulic operated systems. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Our Roadmap to Net Zero We have implemented many programs to reduce 2019 EMISSION BASELINE INVENTORY our carbon emissions and energy use across (All emissions stated in metric tons of CO2e) our value chain. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS 1 In 2021 we continued our journey to build comprehensive In million metric tons CO2 roadmaps for Scopes 1, 2, and 3 to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, as well as our interim targets. Our Scope 1 and 2 roadmaps 46.7 focus on the emissions generated in our operations and facilities and are tailored to each geography. Our Scope 3 roadmaps focuses on the emissions generated from the use of our technologies and are prioritized within each Division and business line by emission source. We improved and partially automated our GHG emissions 32.1 29.2 data collection and controls across all scopes to track progress Scope 1 & 2 and aid in strategic decision making. Scope 3 Purchased  Investments Upstream   Upstream End of Life  Goods and 3.4 million Transportation & Leased Treatment To reduce GHG emissions at our facilities, we are focused Fuel Services Distribution Assets 0.6 million 1.7 million 6.3 million 0.6 million 1.1 millionon reducing energy use, in line with our interim target to reduce GHG emissions from our fuel and power consumption by 30% by 2025. Our global Lean and Green environmental program implements facilities-driven environmental efficiency opportunities for reducing energy use and sourcing renewable energy. Our facilities’ initiatives to reduce power consumption 2019 2020 2021 focus on educating our workforce on energy conservation Electricity Business Employee  Capital Energy  Operations  0.65 million Travel Commuting Goods Activities Waste best practices to promote behavior change, implementing 0.2 million 0.1 million 0.1 million 0.1 million 0.1 million 1 We use the procedures established in the Greenhouse renewable energy solutions at sites where feasible, updating Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting HVAC systems and optimizing facility heating and cooling Standard (Revised Edition) to calculate our annual CO2e emissions in Schlumberger. As part of that process, we apply cycles, and strengthening our renewables strategy, targeting conversion factors to energy consumption data to derive CO2e values. Those conversion factors are taken from the our facilities located on independent power grids. By the end of IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5 - 20 year and 100 year). Schlumberger’s Scope 1 emissions of 2019 and 2020 have been 2021, our renewable power consumed represented 25% of our restated after review of managed production facilities. 2019 total facilities’ electricity consumption, equaling 205,000 MWh Scope 1 and 2 GHG estimates have been restated to exclude emissions associated with our North American fracturing including Texas Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs), Europe, business, which was sold at the end of 2020. In addition, a small portion of our 2020 Scope 3 category 1 emissions and Brazil Green tariffs, as well as onsite generation projects in related to that business were incorrectly included in the 2020 Egypt, India, and Mexico. Aligned with 1.5-degC scenario of the Paris Agreement Sustainability Report, and are herein restated to exclude those emissions. Our Scope 3 greenhouse gas estimates for 2019 and 2020 have also been restated to remove approximately 7.8 million metric tons of CO2e in 2019 and 8.0 million metric tons Achieving our emissions reductions goals will require the of CO2e in 2020, following a determination (in consultation with third-party climate consultants) that such emissions support and engagement of our employees. To that end, in had been incorrectly included in Schlumberger’s previously 2021 we created an ESG Capex fund to support and promote disclosed Scope 3 estimates. This calculation method is consistent for years 2019, 2020, and 2021 in this report. employee-driven environment-related initiatives around the globe. Employees from more than 40 countries submitted more than 140 projects, of which 32 were selected for having the highest impact in emissions reduction, water savings, and waste management. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Our Roadmap to Net Zero continued In 2021 we progressed in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions reductions through efforts to increase energy efficiency, switch to renewable power, and rationalize our operational footprint. Below are some examples of these activities. Energy Efficiency In Australia, our Kewdale facility implemented 651 LED fittings to replace existing lighting. We anticipate this initiative will result in annual reductions of 189,000 kWh of electricity consumption, USD 49,000 of facility energy cost, and 128 metric tons of CO2e. Also in Australia, our Jandakot facility upgraded three compressors in 2021, which reduced the facility’s carbon emissions by 123 metric tons of CO2e per year. LED retrofit in Australia. Alternative Energy In 2021, several of our facilities converted to renewable energy sources, reducing our CO2e emissions by 14,500 metric tons per year. This includes all facilities across the United Kingdom, and a number of facilities in France, the Netherlands, Italy, Romania, and Germany. In Angola, our Malembo and Cabinda facilities installed power connections to the national grid, reducing our diesel usage by 80%, which in turn, reduced our carbon emissions and resulted in annual savings of USD 75,000. In Mexico, our Veracruz facility completed installation of solar panels to reduce its GHG emissions by 480 metric tons of CO2e each year. In Malaysia, we purchased 6,000 MWh of renewable energy credits in 2021, which is expected to result in a 13% CO2e reduction for the entire footprint of our East Asia operations. In Turkmenistan, we built a solar farm at a Schlumberger facility that produces approximately 35,000 kWh per month. This will help us reduce 200 metric tons of CO2e annually, corresponding to about 15% of the total carbon footprint of the facility. Footprint Rationalization Actions In Canada, we consolidated six facilities, which reduced our carbon footprint by 1,500 metric tons of CO2e per year. In the Mexico and Central America region, we consolidated seven facilities, which reduced our carbon footprint by 200 metric tons of CO2e per year. We evaluated more than 140 facility-level environmental  sustainability projects, and we awarded funding to   32 projects that provided a significant environmental and financial return. Utilizing solar power in Turkmenistan. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Decarbonizing Operations In addition to decarbonizing our own operations and investing in new energy technology ventures, a key part of our strategy to advance sustainability within our industry is by developing technologies and services that help our customers reduce their environmental footprint across the exploration and production (E&P) life cycle. Transition Technologies Portfolio In 2021 we announced our comprehensive 2050 net zero commitment inclusive of Scope 3 emissions—a first for the energy services sector. We also announced the launch of our Transition Technology portfolio to address sustainability challenges and opportunities across the oil and gas industry value chain. Our Transition Technologies portfolio includes a select group  of products and services that quantifiably reduce our customers’ GHG emissions footprint, while continuing to drive high performance, reliability, and efficiency. Supported by an industry-leading impact quantification framework, this portfolio is set to grow as we further embed sustainability into our research and development processes. Given the short- and long-term need for oil and gas as part of the energy mix to meet global demand, Schlumberger is committed to developing innovative technologies aimed at enhancing oilfield efficiency, reducing E&P costs, improving productivity, maximizing reserve recovery, and increasing asset value—while simultaneously driving and improving sustainability impact. TRANSITION TECHNOLOGIES Portfolio as of December 2021 Minimize Well Address Fugitive Construction CO2 & Vented Methane Footprint Emissions Minimize Well Construction CO2 Footprint Within the well construction process there are various sources of emissions, including • the rig itself • associated transport of personnel and equipment • manufacturing of infrastructure • consumables and waste processing. The Transition Technologies portfolio includes products and services that minimize emissions from these sources, including • cements and fracturing fluids with reduced embodied CO2 footprint • automated software for rig power management combined with energy storage solutions • automated software to enable autonomous remote operation to reduce personnel transport costs • solutions that minimize emissions related to the transportation and onshore processing of waste • best-in-class efficiency, enabling minimalization of rig time and rig emissions. Electrification of Reduce or Infrastructure Eliminate Flaring Address Methane Emissions Methane is a potent greenhouse gas and represents over 50% of the oil and gas industry’s overall GHG footprint in terms of CO2e. Therefore, it is a key focus for industry reduction efforts and is targeted by the Transition Technologies portfolio. Using the Symmetry* Process software solution, we can design out methane leaks and minimize fugitive methane leak paths from a variety of industry-specific processes. To further address fugitive methane, we have the industry’s broadest portfolio of ISO- and API-certified low-emissions valves. Our Vx* multiphase well testing technology can replace a conventional separator for well-by-well flow metering applications. In doing so, Vx Spectra* surface multiphase flowmeter eliminates multiple sources of both vented and fugitive methane. Electrification of Infrastructure The electrification of oilfield infrastructure has sustainability benefits at multiple levels. Transitioning large-scale power systems like those on offshore platforms to run on electric power instead of diesel generators enables an infrastructure powered by lower-carbon energy sources, including renewable power. Additionally, replacing electro-hydraulic systems with electric-only systems can result in immediate energy consumption reduction, enabling near-term emissions reductions for our customers. Full Field Development Solutions In 2021, we invested 2.4% of our revenue in research and development across our technology portfolio. More than technology solutions  are currently in  100development. In Kazakhstan, Schlumberger deployed a zero-flaring well test and cleanup solution with customers, which has avoided the equivalent of more than 240,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions to date. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE Decarbonizing Operationscontinued Reduce or Eliminate Flaring Flaring represents about 5% of oil and gas operational emissions and includes both routine flaring and non-routine flaring. Complementing the Schlumberger End-to-end Emissions Solutions (SEES) solution, which is focused on elimination of routine flaring operations, our portfolio of Transition Technologies includes technologies and techniques that enable non-routine flaring elimination from activities such as well testing and cleanups. We also offer solutions to maximize flaring efficiency and minimize unburned methane when flaring activity cannot be Full Field Development Solutions This theme of the Transition Technologies portfolio focuses on reducing the impact of production operations, where the cumulative impact of a reduced footprint technology can last years or decades. Advanced technologies such as subsea boosting and subsea compression systems can reduce emissions by hundreds of thousands of metric tons of CO2e per year due to a reduction in energy consumption. The all-electric surface actuator demonstrator enables remote valve operation and health monitoring savings costs by reducing visits to offshore platforms and remote locations. Customer Avoided Emissions With 70% of our total emissions footprint occurring during customer operations, we know that we can make the largest impact in terms of GHG emissions reductions by helping our customers achieve their own emissions reduction goals. As such, we collaborate with our customers to look at GHG footprint challenges through their perspective. The Transition Technologies address these challenges, with each product or service in the portfolio offering a quantified reduction to our customers’ GHG emissions footprint when compared to a reference technology or industry standard. Schlumberger End-to-end Emissions Solutions: Measure, Monitor, Report, and Eliminate Methane and Flaring Emissions Complementing the Transition Technologies portfolio, during 2021 we incubated the SEES concept ahead of a launch in early 2022. SEES is a new set of services and cutting-edge technologies designed to give operators a robust and scalable solution for measuring, monitoring, reporting, and ultimately eliminating methane and routine flaring emissions from their operations. Offshore Angola, Schlumberger Reservoir Performance enabled Eni to confirm minimum hydrocarbons in place and reservoir deliverability in just six weeks on its first 2021 well without flaring using a combination of the Quanta Geo* photorealistic reservoir geology service and the deep transient testing capability of the Ora* intelligent wireline formation testing platform. Compared to traditional methods, this completely eliminated flaring-related greenhouse gas emissions. Schlumberger Limited | 2021 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CSSO CLIMATE ACTION PEOPLE HSE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE New Energy & Transition Opportunities We launched Schlumberger New Energy in 2020 to explore new opportunities in lower-carbon or carbon-neutral energy technologies. Our approach is to apply our domain expertise in areas adjacent to our existing activities and leverage our global footprint and execution platform to deliver at scale. We are using partnership models and our experience in technology industrialization to expand into energy verticals beyond oil and gas. Our diverse New Energy portfolio includes ventures in CCS, energy storage, geothermal power, geoenergy for heating and cooling, sustainable battery-grade lithium, and hydrogen as an energy carrier. Carbon Capture and Sequestration CCS is a critical component of advancing decarbonization and achieving the Paris Agreement’s climate change goals. As a technology leader in CCS and in the development of decarbonization and alternative energy solutions, Schlumberger is actively progressing CCS technologies and business models to enable widespread adoption. Recently, Schlumberger has explored creating strategic partnerships to assess, develop, and operate projects spanning the entire CCS value chain, from capture to storage. Hydrogen as an Energy Carrier In a unique private-public partnership model, Genvia* combines Schlumberger’s expertise and experience with that of the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) and partners. Genvia will accelerate the development and the first industrial deployment of the CEA’s high-temperature solid-oxide electrolyzer technology. The aim of the venture is to deliver the most efficient and cost-effective technology for producing clean hydrogen, a versatile energy and key component of the energy transition. Genvia is partnering with industry leaders to scale technologies and accelerate the decarbonization of multiple industrial sectors. The first demonstrator projects will focus on efficiency, performance, and decarbonization of industrial processes for the steel and cement industries. The projects include collaboration with ArcelorMittal Méditerranée; Ugitech, part of Swiss Steel Group; Vicat; and Hynamics, a subsidiary of EDF group. The Celsius Energy dashboard shows the building’s  Sustainable Battery-Grade Lithium  Geothermal Power  thermal energy usage in real-time.  Our NeoLith Energy technology venture uses a differentiated  Geothermal power uses the heat of the Earth to generate  direct lithium extraction process to produce high-purity, battery- electricity by tapping hot water and steam zones that are  grade lithium material while reducing the production time from  continuously recharged naturally. With decades of expertise in  over a year to just weeks. This unique process is in sharp contrast  the geothermal sector, GeothermEx, a Schlumberger company,  to conventional evaporative methods of extracting lithium, with  provides the full spectrum of geothermal resource development  a significantly reduced groundwater usage physical footprint and  services—from exploration and drilling through to analysis,  related environmental impacts of traditional lithium extraction.  resource modeling and management, financial modeling, and  operational support. GeothermEx’s multidisciplinary approach  Geoenergy for Heating and Cooling  has continuously served the geothermal industry since 1973. In  Celsius Energy has eight ongoing projects in Europe and an  2021, GeothermEx worked closely with Turkey’s Yerka Electricity  expansion to the US. Our Celsius Energy venture uses geoenergy  Generation Co. to spearhead the country’s electricity generation  to provide heating and cooling solutions for new or existing  diversification efforts. Currently, we are involved in approximately  construction, powered by the Earth. Leveraging our extensive  60 active geothermal projects globally.  knowledge of subsurface behavior, operational automation  technology, and deep science expertise, the Celsius Energy  solution helps meet global goals for reduced emissions. In  2020, Celsius Energy replaced the heating and cooling setup in  a 60-year-old Schlumberger manufacturing facility in Clamart,  France, with a renewable geoenergy source. The project delivered  a 60% reduction in energy consumption and 90% reduction in  carbon emissions.  