SLB 2022 Sustainability ReportOverviewClimate ActionPeopleContentsSearchPrintBack/ForwardNaturePeopleFocus areas:Creating In-Country Value Managing our socioeconomic impacts and accelerating our contribution to the sustainable development of host countries and communities through partnerships and collaboration Respecting Human Rights Respecting the inherent dignity of all people in line with our public commitments to human rights global standardsÑincluding the United Nations Guiding Principles Promoting Talent and Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Building a truly diverse workforce, safeguarding mental health and wellbeing, and endeavoring to create more inclusive environments across our value chain You can learn more about the key focus areas of our integrated approach to People and our learning and development pathways here.People are at the heart of our business. Whether theyÕre our employees, customers, contractors, involved in 
our supply chain, orÊin the communities where we live and work, everyone has an equal right to a sustainable future.Our exceptional and diverse people are.the pulse and spirit of who we are. We strive to advance social and economic conditions in host countries and communities; respect human rights in our operations, business relationships and supply chain; and promote diversity, health, wellbeing, and social inclusion in the workplace and across our value chain. Identifying and managing positive and negative business impacts on people, and maintaining high ethical standards are fundamental to our sustainability efforts. We are committed to putting safety, security and the wellbeing of our people at the center of everything we do, so that host countries, communities and the energy industry can all prosper on a lasting.basis.By promoting inclusive socio-economic development, we look to accelerate 
a just energy transition and promote sustainable development in line with 
our business growth.Leveraging the enablersÊand accelerators of our sustainability frameworkIn 2022, our focus has been on enabling and accelerating action, going beyond local content to create in-country value, with the consideration of sustainable development, designing and delivering innovative, scalable, and replicable projects, and conducting activities aimed at creating sustainable local impact. Fostering linkages between in-country value and sustainable development, our local teams are empowered to use the UN SDGs as a framework to identify different local value creation possibilities in connection with our business activities. We continue to build on the momentum of our approach, giving advice and tools to local teams to manage legal and contractual requirements, and supporting local hiring and local sourcing of goods and services. Creating In-CountryValueGovernanceToÊprioritize areas of investment at the localÊlevel,Êwe developed our digital Sustainability Impact Platform to support the complex taskÊof quantifying impacts and.demonstrating value.In 2022, our focus has been on enabling and accelerating action, going beyond local content to create in-country value, promote sustainable development, and deliver innovative, scalable, andÊreplicable projects.Empowering Local TeamsWe launched our new Sustainability ImpactÊAwards to educate our people andÊtarget our investments more effectivelyÊand maximize the impacts ofÊourÊefforts. PartnershipsLooking forward, in 2023, we will launch our Partnership Accelerator Program to support local teams to promote and build successful and effective partnerships that further drive our in-country value and broaden our.sustainability impact.Technology and InnovationBuilding on our strengths, we look for opportunities to improve sustainability impact.through technology.Creating In-Country Value continuedSustainability Impact AwardsCapital allocation plays an important role in helping SLB meet our sustainability commitments and drive our in-country value through community and business investment.SLB Sustainability Impact Awards, launched in 2022, allocate capital to local teams around the globe, to.design, select and deliver high-impact, innovative, scalable, and replicable sustainability projects.Through this program we champion projects that have a sustainable impact in our operations and facilities, and in the communities where we work and liveÑnow and in the future. The awards enable our local teams around the globe to implement projects that tackle local challenges for a net zero, nature positive, and more equitable future.Positive impacts SDG FocusAlignment with local priorities 
and country concerns Sustainability FocusAlignment with corporate aims
and objectives
 SMART OutcomesMapped to an SDG target Stakeholder impacts Customer Collaboration Clear customer synergies
 Employee InvolvementEmployees engaged, championing and volunteering
 Strategic PartnershipsClear external collaboration 
or partnerships Business impacts Growth Create new opportunities for.business growth ProductivityImprove operational efficiency, human capital management or.pricing power Risk ManagementManage operational, legal, reputational and supply chain risk Creating In-Country Value continuedTargeting areas of investment for impactPutting the SDGs at the heart of our in-country value approach, our Country Pinwheels provide local teams with a consistent methodology to identify the SDGs on which they can have the greatest impact and target their efforts.In 2022, our local teams submitted sustainability plans aligned with.their priority SDGs, through a centralized platform. Below is an example of targeted sustainability projects in Ecuador in.2022.Ecuador COUNTRY PINWHEEL IN ECUADOREnergy GHG emissionsSLB has actively engaged in the Punto Verde initiative with the Ministry of Environment, certifying technologies, tools and processes that have proven environmental attributes, including reducing emissions when compared with traditional technologies. SLB was the first company in the energy sector to achieve Punto Verde Òeco-efficientÓ certified products and as of 2022 we have 23 Transition Technologies and 29 projects certified. For example, our certified compact drilling rig saves, on average, 3.3 days of operations per well drilled, significantly reducing associated fuel consumption and transportation.needs.Biodiversity protection In the Amazonia region of Ecuador, our operations take place in areas that are highly biodiverse. Protecting wildlife and flora near our project sites is.very important to SLB and our local stakeholders, and as part of our biodiversity management plan, our wildlife rescue brigades are responsible for the relocation of species from these project sites, in.coordination with local environmental authorities. In 2022, the brigades intervened in 14 critical cases. Economic inequalityIncreasing local livelihood opportunities and helping to build a diverse economy in the Amazonia region, SLB manages an entrepreneurship program, supporting community members to develop new income generating skills, especially women and individuals from indigenous-led organizations. In 2022, we partnered with seven organizations, including a womenÕs association from a remote Kichwa community in El Eden, empowering more than 25 women, through capacity building and provision of equipment, to establish a social enterprise to create and sell handicrafts from vegetable fibers.Respecting 	Human Rights2022 Human Rights ImpactsIN OUR FACILITIES AND.SUPPLY CHAININ OUR FACILITIESIN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN350 of our suppliers completed 
human rights questionnaires100% of SLB facilities underwent third party assessment of human rights riskAwarded best Petrobras supplier in the Human Rights category >50% of all employees and contractors in Australia completed cultural awareness training as part of a practical demonstration of our reconciliation journey with Reconciliation AustraliaLeveraging our Ethics and Compliance Management System, in 2022, we strengthened our risk management and assurance processes, further embedding human rights due diligence requirements in our internal controls, focusing on.our supply chain and our facilities.100+ SLB drivers certified as part of the Truckers Against Trafficking training program at.our driver Training Center in.the US84 modules completed by SLB suppliers on labor rights22 human rights 
self-assessments at.SLB.facilitiesOur commitment to respecting human rights SLB conducts business in a manner that preserves and respects human dignity, as stated in our Code of Conduct, which applies to all employees of the company, contractors, suppliers, agents and business partners. Respecting human rights is a key expectation of SLB and we are committed to supporting the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and embedding the UN Global Compact and its principles into our day-to-day business activities.Our Approach We respect human rights in practice by: .conducting due diligence to identify, assess and.manage potential human rights impacts.making human rights a topic our employees can.understand, recognize and act upon .working with suppliers who respect and comply 
with our Working Conditions Requirements.providing mechanisms for employees and third 
parties to.report any human rights concerns.Managing Modern Slavery RisksTo hold ourselves accountable to the high standards of our Working Conditions Requirements and improve outcomes for workers around the globe, SLB is developing assurance programs to assess, address and manage decent work, worker welfare and modern slavery risks in SLB facilities and in our supply chain. 
Learn more here.12k employees have received human rights trainingHuman rights were discussed as a topic at the global SLB 
supplier forum Learn more here.Respecting Human Rights continued2022 Human Rights HighlightsLearn more here: 1. TONE FROM THE TOP.SLB CSSO and Chief Legal Officer were featured in our new Òintroduction to human rightsÓ training..Continued to convene our global Human Rights Working Group, with senior representatives across SLB advising on priorities and reviewing the operational effectiveness of the program.4. RISK MANAGEMENT.Partnered with a third party to assess inherent human rights risk exposure levels in SLB facilities around the globe, to prioritize sites for.additional awareness training.5. THIRD-PARTY MANAGEMENT.Expanded our supply chain human rights due diligence program in.geographies throughout the world. .Updated our approach to supplier training and engagement, and.added specific human rights language in our supplier contracts..Developed and implemented contract-specific worker welfare plans and modern slavery plans in six countries.2. GOVERNANCE DOCUMENTS.Developed our Human Rights Framework, demonstrating how we consistently embed and.respect human rights in our culture and throughout the.business..Updated our Working Conditions Requirements.A STRONG GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK TO DRIVE ACTION6. ASSURANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY.Piloted a human rights self-assessment tool in 11 SLB facilities, as the basis for an assurance program to verify compliance with our Working Conditions Requirements across our operations..Reported our efforts to identify and prevent the risk of modern slavery in our 2021 Modern Slavery Statement.3. AWARENESS.Released an Òintroduction to human rightsÓ awareness video for employees covering key processes to implement our human rights commitments. .Extended our online continuous training materials to provide targeted training to employees, contractors, and suppliers, adapted from IPIECA and Building Responsibly labor rights training.Learn more about our commitments, approach, focus areas and the 
strong governance framework 
of our human rights program hereFURTHER READINGCode of ConductSets out how we are expected to behave, including our responsibility to.respect human rightsHuman Rights Position StatementConsolidates our human rights commitments and serves as the basis for internal and external engagement on human rights issuesHuman Rights FrameworkOutlines the human rights risk areas weÕve identified and our approach to further embedding human rights throughout the businessWorking Conditions RequirementsDefines the minimum standards that we require our facilities and suppliers to respect and adhere to in relation to workersÕ rightsRespecting Human Rights continuedHuman Rights in ActionIN FOCUSCompleting a Social Risk Assessment in Brazil In 2022, we completed a social risk assessment in Brazil, to.identify, assess and manage potential impacts and risks to local communities associated with our two facilities in the city of Macae, Rio de Janeiro. The SLB social risk assessment process helps us to proactively manage social risks to people and projects, as well as better understand and address the practical benefits that can accrue to local communities.Improving the quality of relationships with our stakeholders begins with engagement. Our team of local assessors met with internal SLB stakeholders, customers, and local stakeholders, including local authorities, non-profit organizations, schools and universities and churches, to.discuss how we can better work together.Through this engagement, we verified that social risks are properly incorporated into our risk management processes, identified improvements for our community grievance mechanism, and generated new opportunities for collaboration to positively impact the lives of people affected by our operations in Macae. IN FOCUSSupporting Industry Efforts 
to.Combat Human Trafficking Human rights are at the core of our anti-trafficking strategy, and we value the significant role our employees play in tackling human rights issues on the ground. Our North America Human Trafficking Working Group, sponsored by the SLB Chief Legal Officer, looks to mobilize SLB employees and the energy industry to recognize and respond to human trafficking in the US and Canada. The groupÕs highlights in 2022 include: .Introducing training at our Kellyville, Oklahoma, and Crossfield, Alberta Driving Training Centers, as part of the certified Truckers Against Trafficking program. .Partnering with Crime Stoppers Houston at.our.HSE forum and exhibition in Houston to.raise awareness about human trafficking. .Holding an anti-human trafficking virtual awareness event, in collaboration with RedM and our employee resource group ConnectWomen, for more than 800 employees. .Collaborating with SLBÕs HSE team to develop a new HSE for Youth module about human trafficking to educate our employees, their families, and members of the communities where we operate. REVENUE CONTRIBUTION27%	Europe, CIS and Africa20%	Latin America32%	Middle East and.AsiaNATIONALITY MIX38%	Europe, CIS and Africa16%	Latin America13%	North America33%	Middle East and.AsiaDEI in the WorkplaceAs a leading global technology company, with a workforce consisting of approximately 99,000 people in more than 100 countries, one of SLBÕs greatest strengths is the diversity of our people. Our national and cultural diversity is based in our philosophy to recruit and develop people from the communities where we work. As a result, we maintain a workforce nationality mix aligned to the revenue derived from the countries in which we work, as reflected in the charts at the right. Our long-standing commitment to national and cultural diversity, which is seen throughout every layer of SLB, fosters a culture that is global in outlook, yet local in practice. In addition to nationality and cultural diversity, gender balance is an important part of our diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy. We are committed to leading our industry in gender diversity, and we are on track to reach our interim milestone of having women represent 25% of our salaried employees by 2025. Our next milestone is for women to comprise 30% of our salaried employees by 2030. Our 2025 and 2030 targets include executive roles and all other salaried positions. Women represent 30% of our executive team as of January.31, 2023, and 27% of SLBÕs Board of Directors. A total of 19.5% of our company (excluding contractors) and 23.8% of our salaried employees were women as of December 31, 2022.10nationalities on our executive.leadership teamPromoting 	Talent & DEI>85nationalities among our.managersWe apply the principles and learnings of our diversity, equity, and inclusion program across our value chain to support achieving a fairer, more prosperous world for all. 30%of our executive team and 23.8% of our salaried employees are womenOur priorities are: .promoting a diverse workforce that supports national representation, and the growth and development of women and underrepresented groups while creating an inclusive working environment where everyone can bring their true self to work .providing opportunities for diverse businesses to participate in our supply chain.supporting positive social outcomes in the communities where we work and live through inclusive educational outreach programs and employee involvement. Our focus in 2022:2022 has been a year of building on our strong Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) foundation, continuing to improve our performance in inclusion, women and pay equity, and.leveraging our employee resource groups.(ERGs).We maintain a workforce nationality mix aligned to the revenue derived from the countries in which we work. 2022 DEI AWARDSRecognized as one of the 
Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion by the Disability Equality Index (DEI)New Workplace Pride Global.Benchmark member and.recognized as 
one of the most inclusive companies for new arrivals Iconic Companies Working to Create a Better World for All award received during the Women Economic Forum 2022 in EcuadorReceived second place 
in the HappyTrainees index in FranceForbesÕ List of MexicoÕs Best Employers 2022 
SLB ranked number one in the Oil & Gas industry and number three in the industry of Construction, Oil & Gas, Mining and.ChemicalsSLB Malaysia Recognitions in 2022 
Graduates in Malaysia ranked us as one of the most attractive employers in Shared Services category, both in Top 100 Brand Awards and GraduatesÕ Choice Award, and also been ranked as Top 1 employer of choice in the Graduate Choice Award.MalaysiaPromoting Talent & DEI continuedWomen and Pay EquityIn 2022, SLB released our first global Women and Pay report relative to 2021 performance. It was a pioneering act in the energy sector, aimed at increasing the transparency of our pay practices to employees and external stakeholders, and supporting joint efforts industry wide to further attract female talent. This report also serves as an accountability mechanism for SLBÕs gender balance targets, including our goal of.having 30% women in our salaried workforce 
by 2030.In 2022, the equal pay gap average narrowed to 2.37% in favor of men, driven by a higher average in experience and age for the male workforce. The equal pay gap median improved by 25% year on year to reach 1.75% pay gap in favor of men. SLBÕs goal to recruit more women together with our culture of promotion from within increases gender balance at all levels of the company. This has led to a positive momentum for gender balance and pay equity in 2022.Inclusion IndexOur evolved culture emphasizes our commitment to real inclusion. We are inclusive and nurture an environment where our people can thrive as their true selves.Our exceptional and diverse people are the pulse and spirit of who we are, enabling us to deliver the extraordinary results needed for a sustainable future. ItÕs.fundamental that our people feel valued and included so they can thrive, and we believe measuring inclusion and providing feedback channels is key. There is no standard way of measuring inclusion. In.2022, SLB created an Inclusion Index using seven key dimensions of inclusion, each assessed though our annual employee engagement survey, Engage to Excel. The survey answers provided a holistic view of our peopleÕs perception of inclusion across different parts of the company, allowing SLB to identify and actions that.will help us evolve our behaviors. In 2022, our overall Inclusion Index perception by employees was scored at 71% both by all employees and.by women. In 2023, inclusion has been set as a key People priority across SLB. Progress against this index will be measured at both the local and global levels. IN FOCUSGender Balance in.OmanIn 2022, while women represented 30% of leadership roles, overall female participation in Oman was 6%. To drive change, the management team formed a new gender balance committee whose goal is to help us meet the SLB milestone of 25% women in our salaried workforce by 2025. To.ensure that womenÕs perspectives and.work experience are fully understood and integrated into action plans, the committee began by undertaking a Òwomen in the workplaceÓ survey with Engage to Excel. Findings are being used to formulate action plans and scope a partnership with the Omani non-profit organization, Lahunna, to mentor SLB female employees and deliver in 2023 their Sidrah Youth Leadership Program for young Omani women in the communities where we work and live.2021 PAY GAP EQUAL PAY GAP AVERAGEEQUAL PAY GAP MEDIAN0.00%0.00%-2.68%-2.35%20%20%-20%-20%2022 PAY GAP Ò	ItÕs clear that, in order to move the needle on gender balance, we need to increase transparency of our pay practices to help guide decision making on both.Ó	Carmen Rando Bejar
Chief People OfficerEQUAL PAY GAP MEDIANEQUAL PAY GAP AVERAGE0.00%0.00%-2.37%-1.75%FURTHER READING-20%20%20%-20%Promoting Talent & DEI continuedÒ	Connect Women helps all of you, women and men, and supports gender diversity and gender balance in the company.Ó	Olivier Le Peuch
Chief Executive OfficerEmployee Resource GroupsOur employee resource groups (ERGs) help us build a diverse and inclusive environment by providing a safe space for employee-led conversations while increasing sense of belonging. They also support actions that drive.improvements in representation for the groups they.support. The ERGs support under-represented groups where there is a differential in the representation of a particular subgroup in society and within the company. ERGs are present in every country where SLB operates.Our ERGsConnect WomenIn 2022, Connect Women celebrated its 15-year anniversary. 15 years of history, 15 years of making a progressive impact in the company, 15 years of inspiring our women and men everywhere, every day. For this special event Connect Women orchestrated celebratory webcasts with featured guests, testimonies and panel discussions at all levels of the organization. Connect Women was awarded a Performed by SLB Award in 2022, recognizing its impact to the companyÕs performance. The community has created a culture promoting DEI through panel discussions, live sessions, coffee talks, and employee engagements such as bi.yearly gender balance updates co-hosted by company executives, celebrating International WomenÕs Day and International MenÕs Day. Over the years, it has organized well over 100 webinars covering professional and personal.topics. LGBT+ AlliesIn 2022, our LGBT+ Allies ERG celebrated its fourth anniversary. We saw membership numbers increase by over 30%, hitting the milestone of 1,000 members in over 45 countries. We also participated in the Workplace Pride Global Benchmark, an online tool that measures the LGBT+ policies and practices for internationally active employers. In the Workplace Pride LGBT+ Global Benchmark survey we were recognized as the strongest first year participant for scoring 10 points over their historical average of first.year scores in the benchmark. ThisAbilityIn 2022, ThisAbility, our ERG that seeks to empower people with visible or non-visible disabilities, health conditions, and care givers, marked the UN International Day of Persons with Disabilities Day by holding multiple internal awareness events. 130 of our facilities worldwide lit their buildings in purple to highlight our support. Black Organization for Leadership and DiversityToday BOLD has more than 700 members in its network. In 2022, BOLD continued its outreach programs including running an awareness campaign for the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, hosting a book club, and building continual awareness around Black health and wellness. BOLD has strengthened the SLB Diverse Talent Pipeline through increasing African American or people of African descent applicant flow and hires, by focusing on three Historically Black College and Universities for field and function positions. Women in Technology In 2022, female technology employees from 16.technology centers came together at the Katy Technology Center for a week of dialogue with technology leadership, female students from Rice University and female recruits. During the week, small.groups of women worked together to bring their.perspective and comments on SLB strategy and.business direction to the technology leadership.DEI in our Supply ChainIn an effort to continue seeking diverse suppliers in 2022, we collaborated with a third party to develop data- and insight-driven insights into what supplier diversity looks like for SLB around the globe, and to benchmark best-in.class supplier diversity programs.Driving momentum for disability inclusion: 130ÊSLB locations participated in #PurpleLightUp DayPromoting Talent & DEI continuedDEI in the CommunityEducational Outreach Education connects SLB with the host counties and communities where we operate and helps us to build shared values. In alignment with UN SDG.4, our.investments in quality educationÑespecially among women and young people from underprivileged backgroundsÑprovide a range of educational experiences and learning spaces focused on technology and STEM. Today our educational outreach efforts are centered on three main programs:.Faculty For the Future Ð funding women from developing economies to pursue PHd or post-doctoral studies in STEM subjects at top universities worldwide, managed by the SLB Foundation, a nonprofit organization..SLB Excellence in Education Development (SEED) Ð providing STEM learning opportunities and creating STEM-rich learning environments for young people since 1998..HSE for Youth Ð helping both young people in the community and SLB employeesÕ children understand and make better HSE-related decisions through workshops led by trained volunteers from SLB.IN FOCUSSEED ProgramIn Kakinada, India, our SEED program partnered with the local government to facilitate computer science teacher training and create a digital learning space, helping high school students to become innovators and successful in STEM fields.SEED2022 Participating Teachers >1,600 SLB Employee Volunteers >1,000 SEED worldwide Faculty for the Future ProgramIn 2022, the Faculty for the Future program, to endow fellowships for female professors to increase representation of women in STEM, hosted its 20th Forum in Cambridge, UK, providing Fellows and Alumnae with the chance to share research and life experience, and learn from distinguished speakers how to raise their profiles as scientists and individuals. FACULTY FOR THE FUTURE2022 New Fellowships Awarded 37 Fellowships Renewed 57 Total Fellows and Alumnae Since 2004 807 Total Host Universities and Research Institutions Since 2004 333 HSE for YouthThe SLB HSE team in Nigeria facilitated HSE For Youth workshops focused on climate change in two community schools in Port Harcourt. After the end of the workshop, the students made personal pledges on a graffiti wall to demonstrate their commitment to taking climate action. 2022 First Aid 61 Internet Safety 23 Climate Change and.Environment 21 Road Safety 10 COVID-19 9 Malaria Prevention 8 Water Sanitation 4 Injury Prevention 3 >116,000young people 
participated  29 countries >700SEED events in 2022