Technology Advantage Schlumberger is committed to innovation and the development of technologies that enhance oilfield efficiency, lower finding and producing costs, improve productivity, maximize recovery, and reduce environmental impacts. Our industry-leading technologies help our customers decrease emissions, save energy, reduce resources, reduce risk, and lower environmental impacts throughout each phase of the oil and gas exploration and production process. Additionally, our technologies and processes address the growing expectations of a global society by meeting or exceeding challenging international regulatory requirements. The process of finding and recovering oil and gas involves subsurface exploration, characterizing a reservoir, constructing and completing the wells, and producing the field. Schlumberger supplies the industry’s most comprehensive range of products and services, from exploration through production, and integrated pore to pipeline solutions that optimize hydrocarbon recovery to deliver reservoir performance in a safe and environmentally sound manner. We develop advanced technologies that help our customers drill faster, reduce their surface and subsurface footprint, and improve reservoir recovery and production, all of which contribute to lowering resource requirements and creating fewer emissions per hydrocarbon unit produced. The technologies listed on the following pages have been selected for their environmental attributes and their ability to help our customers lower emissions, apply better chemistries, optimize production, and reduce resource consumption. More extensive information on the environmental benefits of these and many other Schlumberger technologies can be found on our Global Stewardship website. Schlumberger technologies help our customers decrease emissions, save energy, and reduce resources and waste throughout each phase of the oil and gas exploration and production process. Biodiversity Decreases Air Emissions Reduces Water Use Recycle/Reduces Waste Reduces Footprint/Land Use Reduces Transportation Cleaner Chemistry More Effi cient (Saves Time) Reduces Risk GyroSphere MEMS Gyro-While-Drilling Service    Torrential High-Flow Filtration Unit      FUTUR Self-Healing Cement System   Fulcrum Cement-Conveyed Frac Performance Technology     Broadband Precision Integrated Completion Service    Manara Production and Reservoir Management System     Viscous Slickwater         EverGreen Minimal Environmental Impact Well Effluent Burner    LiftIQ Production Life Cycle Management Service     ORBIT Low-E Certified Low Emissions Valve    Apura Gas-Separation Membranes    Concert Well Testing Live Performance    GyroSphere MEMS Gyro-While-Drilling Service Torrential High-Flow Filtration Unit FUTUR Self-Healing Cement System Fulcrum Cement-Conveyed Frac Performance Technology The GyroSphere* MEMS gyro-while-drilling service improves operational efficiency by enabling gyro  The Torrential* high-flow filtration unit increases the continuous filtration circulation rate, which  surveying without taking any additional rig time. Conventional gyros require more rig time because  reduces rig time while improving filtration efficiency. The unit is a compact, stacked diatomaceous  they must be recalibrated between each run and can only be conducted during pipe connections. Two  earth filtration system for deepwater and ultradeepwater completions operations. Using high rate  surveys can now be completed using the GyroSphere service in the same amount of time conventional  filtration reduces the amount of completion fluid required on the rig because filtration can be carried out  gyros take to start just one. Solid-state technology enables the GyroSphere sensor to withstand  in real time, more efficiently recycling the fluid and reducing the amount of water required.  the downhole shock and vibration that occur during drilling, going beyond the limits of current gyro  technologies. As the first application of microelectromechanical system (MEMS) technology for gyro  surveying while drilling in the oilfield, the GyroSphere service increases drilling efficiency and reliability  while reducing drilling risks  FUTUR* self-healing cement system preserves well integrity because it self-heals from the time it is placed until the end of the well’s operational life and into abandonment. Cement sheath damage can occur during drilling, perforation and stimulation, production, and even after abandonment. This damage compromises well integrity, resulting in sustained casing pressure that can cause cracks in the cement that enable hydrocarbon crossflow and other challenges, such as the loss of hydraulic seal. Conventional slurry designs and gas migration prevention tools are effective only during cement placement, but the FUTUR system reacts to close flow paths so that cracks are repaired within hours, and the cement sheath is restored without the need for well intervention. The self-healing properties of this cement provide a durable cement sheath, long-term zonal isolation, and reliable cement sheath repair to preserve well integrity. Fulcrum* cement-conveyed frac performance technology reduces the risk of poor stimulation results and improves stimulation efficiency. When completing a multistage horizontal well, it is expected that each stage will produce a specific segment of the reservoir. In some instances, hydraulic isolation along the horizontal wellbore is compromised due to poor mud removal, allowing fracturing fluid to migrate through channels behind the casing into a different section of the wellbore than what was intended. Fulcrum technology improves stimulation efficiency by helping keep fracturing fluid and hydraulic pressure in the intended reservoir zone, mitigating poor zonal isolation. Broadband Precision Integrated Completion Service Manara Production and Reservoir Management System The Manara* production and reservoir management system can reduce surface footprint and potentially reduces produced water volumes, which decreases waste and truck traffic. The Manara system provides downhole permanent monitoring and in-lateral flow control of multiple zones and compartments in real time, even in multilateral wells. The system provides in-situ measurements of pressure, temperature, flow rate, and water cut across the formation face in each zone of each lateral. All the sensors are packaged in one compact station, together with an electric flow control valve (FCV) that has infinitely variable settings controlled from the surface through a single electrical control line. Using multiple stations will maximize hydrocarbon sweep and recovery with fewer wells, reducing capital expenditures and operating expense. Viscous Slickwater EverGreen Minimal Environmental Impact Well Effluent Burner The EverGreen* minimal environmental impact well effluent burner is well suited for operations in environmentally sensitive areas because it eliminates liquid fallout, visible smoke emissions, and oil dumping at the end of a burn sequence. The burner is used for onshore and offshore exploration and development well testing and cleanup. It performs fallout-free and smokeless combustion of the liquid hydrocarbons produced during well testing. The Evergreen burner can operate effectively with up to 25% water cut, which makes it ideal for cleanup operations. In 2018, the EverGreen burner received a verification statement of its emissions and fall-out efficiency performance from DNV-GL, a leading provider of risk management and quality assurance services to the maritime, oil and gas, and power and renewables industries. LiftIQ Production Life Cycle Management Service ORBIT Low-E Certified Low Emissions Valve The Lift IQ* production life cycle management service can reduce the need to send resources to the wellsite because it enables remote access to well production data. Data is transferred via satellite or cellular connection to and from remote locations, hostile environments, and sites with limited or no data acquisition capabilities. From operations in a single well to an entire field, the Lift IQ service provides 24-hour access to Schlumberger service centers around the globe. The LiftIQ service incorporates the LiftWatcher real-time surveillance service into a monitoring and surveillance platform for all lift systems to further optimize production and enable remote operations. Our valve designs are compliant with the fugitive emission (FE) standards set forth by the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Standards Organization (ISO). The primary sources of FE in a typical valve are the stem packing, body joints, and fittings. We performed extensive in-house testing on these critical sealing elements to develop the  ORBIT Low-E* certified low emission valve, which is certified to the highest level of FE tightness for both high- and low-temperature applications. The ORBIT valve uses a tilt-and-turn operation that eliminates seal abrasion for long-term performance and reliability in frequent cycle, critical service, tight shutoff applications. Apura Gas-Separation Membranes Apura membranes provide smaller ecological footprint, reduced power consumption, zero chemical requirements, and fewer emissions into the environment in comparison with amine systems. The Apura membrane’s durable spiral-wound multilayer membrane is designed for use in high-pressure gas streams and medium- to low-CO2 applications for bulk and fine removal of contaminants such as H2S, N2, and water. When applied in water-rich applications, the performance levels and life expectancy of Apura membranes are higher compared with traditional spiral-wound membrane technologies, resulting in substantial opex savings. Concert Well Testing Live Performance Concert* well testing live performance enhances both crew safety and environmental compliance during well testing operation. Concert performance technology uses sensors and cameras to acquire data, monitor, and analyze surface test operations through mobile devices, web-based dashboards, and wearable technology. Digitally enabling the entire well testing process decreases workforce exposure by reducing the time needed to read sensors and monitor data locally. Cameras also provide continuous video surveillance of burner combustion to manage fallout and emissions. Concert performance significantly increases operational control and collaboration, providing a step change in operational efficiency. The result is safer well testing operations and a reduced environmental footprint. Stewardship in Action: Environment Schlumberger encourages its employees to become involved in a wide range of workplace initiatives and volunteer for community projects that help reduce environmental impacts. Over the years, these and other employee-driven programs have helped improve internal efficiency while reducing energy consumption, water use, and greenhouse gas emissions. World Environment Day Celebrations World Environment Day is celebrated every year on June 5.  In 2018, Schlumberger employees celebrated the day by facilitating and participating in various activities to bring awareness to environmental issues and to help reduce their environmental impact. Mexico: Schlumberger employees facilitated a series of lectures for 130 high school students to talk about plastics and issues with plastic pollution. France: Employees conducted an awareness campaign and held a cleanup event where they picked up litter from their campus and the surrounding local area. Chad: To raise awareness of deforestation, employees and contractors planted over 250 trees and plants at their location and in the surrounding area. United Arab Emirates: Employees identified the top ten plastic items they consume and set a goal to reduce consumption of those items by 10% over the next year. Continued work with Solar Impulse Schlumberger became a partner of the Solar Impulse Foundation’s World Alliance for Efficient Solutions in 2017.  The World Alliance is working to select 1,000 clean, efficient, and profitable solutions that have environmental or social benefits. When a solution’s technological feasibility, profitability, and environmental or socio.economic benefit has been proven, it receives an Efficient Solutions label. Schlumberger experts and scientists help to assess the technological feasibility and benefits of the solutions submitted. In 2018, 76 submissions were awarded the Solar Impulse Efficient Solutions Label. Increasing Energy Efficiency in Norway 2018 was the first full year of an energy saving project initiated by Schlumberger employees in Norway.  In late 2017, employees engaged with a third-party energy consultancy and constructed a plan to reduce energy use by 20% over a three-year period.  The project consisted of five locations, and the reduction plan was based purely on changing employee behavior and increasing energy optimization at the facilities, and therefore did not require costly investments for new equipment or retrofits.  Each location appointed a dedicated team to identify energy waste and opportunities for improvement, and regular meeting were held between the teams and consultants to track progress.  The program has been a major success, and by the end of 2018 the program had reduced average energy use at the facilities by over 12%, and employees are well on their way to achieving their reduction target of 20% over three years. Tree Planting Events Around the World In 2018, there were numerous employee-driven tree planting events at our locations all around the world. Schlumberger employees not only planted trees for holidays such as Arbor Day and World Environment Day, but also used tree planting events to increase environmental awareness, employee engagement, and even exercise, while having a positive impact on the environment. For example, Schlumberger employees and their families in Romania planted trees in a nearby forest, and then participated in a hike as part of health and wellness campaign.  In Indonesia, employees at various facilities planted pink tabebuia trees to raise awareness and show their commitment to increasing gender diversity.  