Environment We have been working to strengthen our technology offering and presence in key markets around the world. Our current focus on digital technology innovation is helping our customers make better use of data and expertise by getting the right information to the right people at the right time. By increasing the volume and quality of accessible data, our software is helping customers make better-informed decisions that reduce subsurface risk and optimize production. This is not only changing the way we work, it is also changing the very nature of that work. In this Section Environmental Performance  14  3 million  Technology Advantage  20  Gallons of water being saved annually at one facility.  Stewardship in Action  30 Learn more about the Schlumberger commitment to the environment: www.slb.com/globalstewardship/environment  40  Number of carbon capture and storage projects Schlumberger is involved in around the world.  80 Tonnes of lithium metal batteries recycled. In 2017, we increased our ability to manage water use at our facilities. A new facilities water model developed to determine how facilities consume water is now enabling managers to identify best water management practices and recognize leaks and unintentional uses of water. At our engineering centers, water is used for equipment manufacturing and cleaning, and at our field operations facilities it is used for domestic purposes, vehicle washing, irrigation, and facility-specific tasks. We also continued work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through the commercialization of new technologies, better data collection, and more accurate measurement. We report on this progress annually to RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment, CDP Climate Change, Bloomberg, FTSE Russell, and other company filings.  Environmental Performance Our 2017 environmental performance in several priority areas is set out below. We also continue to develop technologies that can help our customers optimize production and reduce their environmental impacts. Our greenhouse gas emissions remained relatively flat during the year. Total energy consumption rose slightly, mainly due to our merger with Cameron in 2016 – Cameron has manufacturing units that require more energy than most of our other business units. Fuel consumption on land rose as well, primarily due to increased hydraulic fracturing activity in North America. Climate Change We align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) of reducing environmental impacts and fostering technology innovation. We also support the efforts of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. IPIECA has partnered with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to develop a shared understanding of the implications of the UN SDGs for the oil and gas industry.  Internally, we continue to advance our data collection capabilities with the intention of addressing climate change through annual improvement in the measurement and management of our carbon footprint. A new model we developed to monitor water use is now helping managers at many of our facilities in the northwestern United States identify leaks and other anomalies, saving significant amounts of water. For example, our employees at a facility in Wyoming identified a leak using the model and are now saving nearly three million gallons of unintentional water use annually. Externally, our position as a global technology leader gives us an unparalleled ability to address climate change with technologies that help our customers increase their operational performance while reducing or avoiding emissions, lowering water usage, improving chemistry applications, and increasing oil and gas production. Our corporate strategy is to continue developing a system-level view to fully optimize the finding, development, and production of new and existing oil and gas resources. Increasing the volume and quality of accessible data better equips the exploration and production (E&P) industry to make informed decisions that reduce subsurface risk, optimize production, reduce resource consumption, and save greenhouse gas emissions. Biodiversity To eliminate, minimize, mitigate, and manage significant ecosystem or biodiversity impacts, Schlumberger has developed a risk-based procedure for the creation of ecosystem and biodiversity management plans. These plans protect sensitive wildlife areas, flora and fauna, ecosystems, and conservation areas. They also prevent the introduction of invasive species and establish conditions to facilitate the rehabilitation or restoration of land areas impacted by Schlumberger operations and project activities. The plans detail any local regulations requiring reporting on ecosystem and biodiversity management activities, and are reviewed periodically to ensure applicability. Schlumberger designs and manages its operations to minimize the impact on ecosystems and biodiversity across the life cycle of each facility, activity, product or service. Monitoring ecosystem and biodiversity impact takes place throughout the life cycle of the project or facility. Medium- to high-level risk controls are applied when Schlumberger operations are in environmentally sensitive areas, have a potential for significant wildlife loss, have the possibility to introduce invasive species, or could impact a large body of land or water. As far as reasonably practical, Schlumberger uses existing infrastructure to avoid or reduce the need for land clearance for construction. Where practical, new Schlumberger infrastructure is not placed in environmentally sensitive areas. The Company strives to minimize environmental disturbance; restrict the movement of machinery and equipment during work activities; plan land restoration; and schedule activities that may cause disruption and disturbance to wildlife to avoid sensitive periods of the year. Our position as a global technology leader gives us an unparalleled ability to address climate change with technologies that help our customers reduce emissions and increase their operational performance. Managing Environmental Risk Schlumberger uses a flexible, risk-based approach to manage and mitigate the environmental aspects and impacts of our activities, products, and services. The diverse nature of these environmental aspects and impacts requires a flexible approach. Our commitment to environmental protection, as described in our HSE risk policy and the Schlumberger Blue Print in Action–Our Code of Conduct, requires that a minimum standard of environmental performance is established at each of the Company’s facilities, regardless of local regulatory requirements. Our environmental risk management program uses a combination of 14 fundamental controls that are implemented at Company locations in environmentally sensitive areas, and 12 risk-based controls that are implemented to manage the environmental aspects and impacts of a specific business activity. The requirements for risk-based controls are described in business-specific environmental risk assessments for each of our geographical regions and business Segments. Each of our worksites uses this risk assessment to create a documented, site-specific environmental program that describes which controls are applicable to the site and how those controls are implemented. Implementation of the environmental management program is supported by the management systems and processes described in our corporate standards and a number of web-based IT systems designed to collect and manage environmental performance data, regulatory compliance documentation, and procedural documents. Our environmental management program includes several processes that provide assurance of internal conformance to our own requirements and assurance of external compliance to applicable regulatory requirements. These assurance processes are documented and subject to periodic internal review. The Schlumberger environmental risk management program has been Performance Data Our overall environmental performance in 2017 was relatively unchanged compared with the previous year as the challenging industry environment began to rebalance. We continued working to improve our internal data-gathering procedures, database systems, and reporting practices for greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, electricity generation, and waste. Each year we increase the number of sources from which we can track data; in 2017 monitoring water usage was a focus. Loss of Containment We have procedures in place to minimize, respond to, and control the environmental impact of uncontained spills at Company worksites and at some third-party controlled worksites. However, our industry-recognized number of incidents increased from 32 in 2016 to 45 in 2017, although the volume of hydrocarbons greater than one barrel fell from 547 barrels to 436, a decrease of 21%. We have reviewed our processes and procedures and provided employee training designed to minimize unplanned releases of oil and chemicals to the environment. Water Use Our overall water use increased slightly from 3.4 million cubic meters in 2016 to 3.8 million cubic meters in 2017. This increase in water use was primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of Cameron activities, which we acquired in 2016, and an increase in business activity in North America Land. Our water consumption data includes 100% of our facilities. A facility water model we developed in 2017 is helping managers of Schlumberger facilities determine how the Company consumes water. The model looks at best water management practices and helps managers identify leaks and recognize unintentional uses of water. Water is used for equipment manufacturing and cleaning at our engineering centers, and for domestic purposes, vehicle washing, irrigation, and facility-specific tasks at our field operations facilities. Air Emissions Schlumberger wellsite activities increased in 2017, leading to a 19% increase in our overall Scope 1 emissions from 1.14 million tonnes in 2016 to 1.36 million tonnes. Our Scope 1 increase was primarily due to the upturn in pressure pumping and hydraulic fracturing in North America. This was partially offset by a 20% decrease in our overall Scope 2 emissions from 0.70 million to 0.56 million tonnes. This is primarily due to reduced manufacturing activity. Combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions increased marginally from 1.84 million tonnes to 1.92 million tonnes. Waste Management To manage waste materials more efficiently, Schlumberger is constantly improving processes and materials. We reuse materials when possible, recycle more for our own operations and for our customers, and use our novel technologies to find new recovery methods. We continue to seek opportunities to reduce both our direct consumption of resources and the waste we generate. In 2017, we continued to improve data collecting processes. Improvements to the measurement of our waste management processes in North America combined with the inclusion of a full year of Cameron data following our acquisition of Cameron in 2016 resulted in a 10% increase in reported waste generated for a combined total of 539,000 tonnes, of which 184,500 tonnes was recycled. Raw Materials As a part of an ongoing effort to improve data collection, we have expanded raw material data to include global consumption of sand, proppants, brines, cement, barite, and bentonite. Raw materials utilization typically follows changes in wellsite activity. Electricity Use Electricity use was essentially unchanged year-on-year, decreasing from 1,220,000 MwH in 2016 to 1,154,000 MwH in 2017. This was primarily due to relatively flat facility-related activity during the year. CO2e Emitted (Scope 1) (million tonnes) 1.36 1.14 2016 2017 Water Use (million cubic meters) 3.8 3.4 2016 2017 Waste Generated by Year (thousand tonnes) 539 488 2016 2017 CO2e Emitted (Scope 2) (million tonnes) 0.70 0.56 2016 2017 CO2e per $B Revenue per Year (tonnes) 66,160 63,075 2016 2017 CO2e per Employee per Year (tonnes) 19.2 18.4 2016 2017 Hydrocarbon Bulk Fluids Spilled (barrels) 547 2016 2017 Electricity Use (thousands of MWh) 1,220 1,154  2016 2017 Fuel Consumption (by type) Distillate Fuel Oil No. 1 18% Diesel/Gas Oil 82% developed to align with the requirements of our external stakeholders, including our customers and regulatory agencies in the countries where we operate. To support those stakeholders, we have developed our program to include the requirements of two recognized independent environmental management standards—the International Standards Organization ISO14001:2015 and the environmental components of the International Finance Corporation (World Bank Group) Environmental & Social Performance Standards. Furthermore, a third-party organization has completed a review of our program’s alignment to those two standards. Chemical Transparency In 2010, Schlumberger developed a chemical disclosure process for hydraulic fracturing called the “systems approach.” Five years later, the process was adopted by Frac Focus—a US and Canadian registry for public disclosure of fracturing chemistry—with the goal of improving industry-wide transparency rates. After eight years and nearly 22,000 disclosures by Schlumberger, our industry-leading rate of disclosure for chemical constituents continues to be nearly 100%. Operational Integrity Operational integrity at Schlumberger is about ensuring that the Company can deliver safe, efficient, and reliable products and services for our customers. Schlumberger is committed to achieving a tenfold improvement in operational reliability by 2020. In addition, our multiyear transformation program benefited field operations through increased efficiency, improved reliability, and reduced nonproductive time (NPT). NPT is the time it takes to return to the same working position on a job after a service quality incident or equipment failure. In 2017, we improved our NPT rate by 60% over our baseline year of 2011, which is a significant achievement given industry conditions. Working more efficiently, doing things right the first time, and decreasing nonproductive time helps our customers reduce emissions. Third-Party Audit Schlumberger continues to quantify environmental data and identify ways to reduce it. In 2017, we engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) again to audit our methodology for quantifying direct and indirect GHG emissions linked to our operations around the world. As a part of this process, PwC auditors reviewed our processes and procedures and verified selected environmental and health and safety data. Environmental data audited in 2017 includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions of greenhouse gases, waste production, water consumption, spills, and energy consumption. Health and safety data includes employee and contractor lost time injuries and illnesses and the associated workhours to determine frequencies and rates. PwC has expressed a limited assurance that our data are in all material respects fairly presented and in accord with Schlumberger guidelines. Evaluating Potential Impacts The Schlumberger Stewardship Tool is software that we have developed to incorporate sustainability into our engineering and operational practices by modeling efficiency gains at the wellsite that yield a lower environmental footprint. By modeling our environmental footprint relative to metrics such as emissions, air quality, water use, noise, and chemical exposure, the unique web-based software is used to evaluate potential projects related to well stimulation. This stewardship tool has been used in the development new stimulation technologies that feature environmental benefits, including BroadBand Sequence* fracturing service and our Automated Stimulation Delivery Platform. In 2017, we developed new modules for wellsite preparation and drilling applications to expand the coverage of the stewardship tool beyond well stimulation. Our customers and stakeholders and other companies in the oil and gas industry can use this resource to evaluate each phase of a project and determine which activities have the greatest potential for environmental impacts. Restoring Nature in Colombia With stable production and a reduction in field investment activities near Yond, a municipality in Colombia, Schlumberger Production Management (SPM) has started working to restore oilfield mud pits as a part of an alliance with a Colombian petroleum company. With the help of a third-party contractor, seven 2,000-cubic-meter mud pits were remediated and closed in 2017. The lined mud pits are used to store drilling cuttings and flowback or produced water at the worksite. Remediation work on the seven pits—each about the size of an Olympic swimming pool—took 140 days and cost more than USD 700,000. Remediation is designed to return the land to pre- work conditions, restoring balance to the ecosystem and allowing native flora and fauna to begin repopulating the area. Five more mud pits in the area are scheduled for remediation work in 2018. Managing Facilities The Schlumberger Global Facilities Management and Maintenance Standard defines our responsibilities associated with managing facility activities. The goal is to minimize utility use and the impact of our activities on the environment. The standard is designed to ensure that facility activities are compliant with Schlumberger policies as well as relevant local environmental legislation and directives. Waste generated by any facility task must be measured and disposed of in a responsible manner with a licensed waste broker, and materials (particularly chemicals) that reduce or control pollution must be handled and stored responsibly. The standard requires energy-saving products and practices to be used in all aspects of facilities management activities, and that a record is kept of energy use. In addition, employees and contractors who carry out facility activities must receive appropriate training, particularly when their work may have an impact on the environment. In 2017, Schlumberger occupied 713 sites and facilities with environmentally significant activities around the world, and 74 of them were certified to the ISO14001 standard. Carbon Services Schlumberger Carbon Services (SCS) is involved in more than 40 carbon capture and storage (CCS) projects around the world. SCS helps companies avoid emissions through the provision of services and technologies for long-term geological CO2 storage. The business was formed in 2005 in response to growing awareness about the impact of CO2 emissions, and SCS still focuses on the challenges of storing CO2 captured from industrial sources underground to help mitigate climate change and protect the environment. In 2017, we continued to participate in the Illinois Industrial Carbon Capture and Sequestration Project, a large-scale demonstration project designed to store 1 million tonnes of CO2 annually approximately 7,000 feet underground in the Mt. Simon Sandstone. We also continued to offer carbon capture and utilization technologies for Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR). Schlumberger is committed to These technologies are designed to assist energy providers and other large-scale carbon emitters in capturing and utilizing waste CO2 in EOR operations. For example, we have provided achieving a tenfold improvement characterization services at the Bell Creek field in Montana, where 1 million tonnes of CO2 from the Lost Cabin gas plant in operational reliability by 2020. in Wyoming is being injected underground. Technology Advantage By disrupting the traditional way of working in the oil and gas industry, digital technology innovation is creating a step change in operational and business performance for Schlumberger and its customers. The traditional way of working within the oil and gas industry presents barriers to the sharing of data and technical knowledge among domain experts. Integrating digital technology into workflows requires extensive domain expertise about the entire system—from hardware and software technologies to the complexity of the data and the numerous systems involved. Innovation around a single element of the E&P development chain cannot maximize efficiency if done in isolation. Our approach requires a complete understanding of what each element contributes to the entire chain. Achieving such a step change entails a new collaborative mindset, end-to-end systems knowledge, and redesigned business models that support new ways of working. Optimizing production can help to lower impacts on the environment. The Reservoir Life Cycle The life cycle of a reservoir includes activities related to exploration, drilling, completions, production and abandonment. Schlumberger offers a complete portfolio of technologies that address each phase of this process. Our Reservoir Characterization Group continues to be a driving force behind the development of new technologies that enable our customers to create geological models and simulations that can improve hydrocarbon production and recovery while also helping to reduce emissions caused by exploration activities. The Drilling Group brings together all the bottomhole assembly components into integrated downhole systems that leverage our knowledge of instrumentation, software, drilling optimization, and automation. Our integrated drilling system redefines traditional workflows, reduces total workhours, and requires fewer resources to drill a well. Faster drilling with less downtime increases well construction efficiency, minimizes risks, reduces the cost per barrel, and decreases emissions at the wellsite. Our Production Group technology portfolio provides several environmental advantages by improving well production and overall recovery while also decreasing the wellsite footprint and reducing water and proppant consumption. Using less water and proppant in the production phase reduces the amount of truck traffic to and from the wellsite, resulting in a reduction of noise, dust, fuel consumption, and related emissions.  Cameron Group blowout preventers and control systems offer state-of-the-art technology to ensure well integrity and prevent unintended releases to the environment. The ongoing integration of Schlumberger reservoir and well technology with Cameron Group wellhead, flow control, and surface equipment into total drilling and production systems is set to provide a significant improvement in industry performance. Decreases Air Emissions Reduces Transportation Recycle/ Reduces Waste Reduces Footprint/ Land Use Schlumberger offers a complete portfolio of technologies that address each phase of the life cycle of a reservoir. Material Issues Based on information obtained from our customers along with an internal review that assessed applicability, degree of impact, and risk, Schlumberger has identified three environmental issues that are material to our business. Unintended releases to the environment, our top material risk, includes both well integrity and container integrity. We also continue to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and optimize our  water use. Unintended Releases to the Environment A properly constructed well creates barriers crucial to reducing the risk of uncontrolled release of formation fluids. Ensuring well integrity requires a thorough understanding of the short- and long-term conditions that the well might encounter, knowledge that enables optimization of the well design from the very beginning. Schlumberger has a portfolio of unique cementing technologies and logging tools for ensuring and evaluating well integrity. Zonal isolation is created and maintained in the wellbore through the cementing process. Cement supports and protects well casings and helps prevent fluids in one zone from mixing with fluids in another zone. Cement systems that help establish zonal isolation work in a variety of reservoir conditions and remain in place throughout the life of the well. Schlumberger cementing technologies provide a wide range of solutions to achieve zonal isolation. To prevent unplanned discharges, we also test the integrity of our containers on a regular basis, taking into consideration the unique conditions of each container, including its existing condition, age, service history, original construction specifications, and previous inspection results. Well Integrity We have developed a Well Integrity Barrier Standard containing 10 critical requirements that employees must follow on the job. Development of this standard was a company-wide initiative to raise awareness and impose mandatory rules that define the minimum requirements for training, certification, and knowledge of the barriers we provide. We also identified a risk assessment methodology to ensure that sufficient controls are in place to prevent the failure of any barriers we provide to our customers. Focusing on process safety, the new methodology uses risk evaluation to analyze and demonstrate causal relationships in high-risk scenarios. We developed two corporate risk assessments: one for undesired events, such as the unplanned loss of a Schlumberger-provided barrier, and one for the loss of containment. Container Integrity Regularly scheduled inspections, evaluations, and testing of bulk storage containers by qualified personnel are critical parts of discharge prevention. Our inspection and testing program involves an external visual inspection along with extensive testing and examination to evaluate container integrity. These inspections are site-specific and they meet or exceed industry standards. The Schlumberger Environmental Management Standard establishes a minimum level of protection for all primary containers by using secondary containment, spill preparedness and response, and prohibitions of certain activities. This requirement is implemented even when local regulatory requirements set a lower standard. Material Issues Unintended releases to the environment Greenhouse gas emissions Water use optimization Greenhouse Gas Emissions Schlumberger provides a broad range of technologies and services that our customers can use to help them reduce emissions during the development of oil and gas fields. Lower emissions are achieved by reducing delivery of resources such as proppant and water to the wellsite, and by drilling wells faster and more efficiently. In 2017 we directed significant effort at increasing the accuracy of our emissions measurements by adding more data sources, implementing more accurate measuring systems, and expanding the geographic scope of our emissions scrutiny. This work is now leading to new opportunities for better emissions management. We also began implementing the recommendations of a third-party auditor following an audit of our emissions profile. THIS IS SCHLUMBERGER       COMMUNITY      TRACK RECORD Water Use Optimization Responsible water management is key to our operations and the growth of our company. Through corporate engagement, Modelled Water Use facility management, and technological innovation, Schlumberger CHEYENNE, WYOMINGrecognizes the importance of water to our company as well as to civilizations around the world. By incorporating next-generation technologies and services to prepare for a future water-stressed world, we are anticipating a transition within our industry to meet evolving regulatory measures. Schlumberger began taking water management to a new level WATER USE (GALLONS) 500,000 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 Jun 16Jul 16Aug 16Sep 16Oct 16Nov 16Dec 16Jan 17Feb 17Mar 17Apr 17May 17Jun 17Jul 17Aug 17Sep 17Oct 17Nov 17Dec 17 0in 2017 by developing a water-use model for facilities that is improving reporting on water use and helping reduce consumption. The project began by identifying high-water-use facilities in the Rocky Mountains. Researchers studied water use patterns at those facilities between May 2016 and June 2017, dividing it into four categories: domestic, vehicle washing, irrigation, and facility-specific services. People’s water-use habits were incorporated into the model, as were wash bay flow rates and vehicle washing frequencies for light and heavy vehicles. Irrigation logistics obtained from facility personnel included type of irrigation (drip or sprinkler), system flow rates, number of zones, times for each zone, and irrigation frequency. By comparing water model estimates with monthly invoiced water charges at each facility, managers can identify excess consumption patterns caused by poor efficiencies or underground leaks, and put strategies in place to reduce consumption.   Actual Domestic Vehicle Washing Irrigation Service A facility water model developed in 2017 is helping Schlumberger determine how our facilities consume water. The model helps Schlumberger operators identify best water management practices and recognize leaks and unintentional usage of water. The chart above shows annual water use at a Schlumberger facility in Cheyenne, Wyoming. By comparing use patterns with the model's estimated domestic water use, vehicle washing, irrigation, and facility-specific services, managers discovered a leak. After fixing the leak, the Cheyenne facility is now saving over three million gallons of water annually and associated costs of USD 42,000 per year. Technologies Petrotechnical experts spend a great deal of time finding, preparing and interpreting the exploration-related data they need to make decisions. During a typical development process, different types of data exist in silos, making holistic analysis impossible. Without a system approach, information and time are lost because the lack of interface among different systems makes it difficult to share localized knowledge.   Schlumberger developed the DELFI cognitive E&P environment to enable a new way of working. As the first of its kind in the oil and gas industry, this secure, cloud-based environment harnesses data, scientific knowledge, and domain expertise to fundamentally change the industry’s way of working. The DELFI environment uses an E&P data lake on a cloud platform that includes more than 1,000 3D seismic surveys, 5 million wells, 1 million well logs, and 400 million production records from around the world.  This data lake makes data from different sources available through a common interface, making it easier for users to discover what the data is, have access to it, and use it to maximum advantage. As our customers work with this vast amount of information in the cloud, the result is a step change in scalability and performance. The DELFI environment leverages data analytics, machine learning, high performance computing, and the Internet of things—all of which work together to maximize operational efficiency and deliver optimized production. DrillPlan in the DELFI cognitive E&P environment forms part of a fully integrated well construction solution, which transforms the planning and execution performance, efficiency, and quality of every well drilled. This radical new way of working delivers quicker and better quality drilling programs. The iterative workflow means that plans improve as new data are added, and future programs can learn from prior experience. The fully integrated well construction solution will be driving the Schlumberger Rig of the Future, which through knowledge capture, mechanization, and automation will deliver a further leap in performance, making sure that each well is better than the last. Drilling wells faster and more efficiently can significantly reduce environmental impacts. Biodiversity Decreases Air Emissions Reduces Water Use Recycle/Reduces Waste Reduces Footprint/Land Use Reduces Transportation Cleaner Chemistry More Efficient (Saves Time) Reduces Risk Reducing Impact The process of finding and recovering oil and gas involves subsurface exploration, characterizing a reservoir, constructing and completing the wells, and producing the field. The technologies listed on this page have attributes that help reduce the impact of these activities on the environment. These technologies are listed in the approximate order that our customers deploy them in the field. More information on the environmental benefits of these and other Schlumberger technologies can be found on our Global Stewardship website. ACTive OptiFIRE CT Real-Time Selective Perforating and Activation System    Automated Stimulation Delivery Platform      BroadBand Sequence Service        Permanent Magnet Motor Electric Submersible Pumps    CemPRIME Scrub   e-Source    SCREEN PULSE Separator     WellWatcher Permanent Monitoring Systems      ACTive OptiFIRE CT Real-Time Selective Perforating and Activation System Automated Stimulation Delivery Platform  The ACTive OptiFIRE CT real-time selective perforating and activation system’s perforating guns can be activated up to 10 times with precise downhole depth and hydrostatic pressure control—all in a single run. As an example, an operator in the Middle East successfully deployed the ACTive OptiFIRE CT system on a 2,000 meter, high-pressure unconventional lateral, accomplishing in one run what otherwise would have required multiple runs. The system enabled shooting the same interval three times to achieve a perforated density of 18 shots per foot across a single 0.9 meter interval in a single run. Utilizing conventional perforating techniques would have required three separate runs. Fewer runs for single-perforation attempts reduce downtime, minimizing costs and risk. The improved efficiency results in reduced emissions. The Automated Stimulation Delivery Platform redefines industry expectations for hydraulic fracturing process control and consistency. By integrating modular automated skids, trailers, and silos that work synergistically to optimize operations, we can increase efficiency and minimize HSE risks associated with silica dust encountered when fracturing proppant. The automated features of the process can save up to 15 minutes off each hydraulic fracturing stage, resulting in a three-hour reduction on the treatment of a typical 24-stage well and decreasing overall hydraulic fracturing equipment-related CO2 emissions by 10%, as estimated using our Schlumberger Stewardship Tool. Additionally, the silo proppant storage system, utilizing a gravity dumping and conveyor system, significantly reduces the generation of silica dust encountered with pneumatic transfer systems. BroadBand Sequence Service Permanent Magnet Motor Electric Submersible Pumps BroadBand Sequence fracturing service enables each zone to be sequentially isolated, fractured, and fully stimulated, resulting in greater reservoir volume and contact. When applied to previously producing wells, BroadBand Sequence can boost production and hydrocarbon recovery. In the Eagle Ford, well production increased from about 50 barrels of oil per day (BOPD) to 650 BOPD while flowing pressure increased from 250 to 5,000 PSI at approximately 20% of the cost of a drilling and completing a new well. Broadband Sequence allows our customers to boost production in a field while minimizing the need to drill new wells. Most wells using the Broadband Sequence service require fewer trucks and less equipment on site, leading to reduced fuel consumption overall and fewer emissions per well. The Permanent Magnet Motor (PMM) electric submersible pump has higher energy efficiency compared with conventional alternating-current inductive motors, which saves money on power consumption and reduces emissions related to electricity generation. The unique design of the Permanent Magnet Motor* enables superior performance, improved efficiency, and more power. In the Kaji-Semoga field in South Sumatra, recent campaigns replaced 20% of the older induction motor pumps with Permanent Magnet Motors, improving power efficiency by an average of 20% and reducing power generation costs by USD 750,000 along with greenhouse gas emissions associated with generating that electricity. CemPRIME Scrub Engineered Scrubbing Spacer eSource Seismic Source Technology CemPRIME Scrub engineered scrubbing spacer contains fibers that improve mud removal in wells where conventional chemistry-based mud cleaning systems are inadequate. Cementing is a critical part of achieving long-lasting zonal isolation, which is necessary to maintain well control. One of the primary challenges of achieving effective zonal isolation is removing nonaqueous drilling fluid from the wellbore. Microdebonding of the cement sheath is a significant risk to overall well integrity, potentially leading to sustained casing pressure and health, safety, and environment (HSE) hazards. Field applications of CemPRIME Scrub engineered scrubbing spacer provided improved cement evaluation logs and reduced or eliminated sustained casing pressure. Fully compatible with spacer, cement slurry, and drilling muds, CemPRIME is compatible with conventional systems but significantly improves rotor cleaning. Reducing sustained casing pressure indicates that the log response correlates to a tangible improvement in well integrity. eSource bandwidth-controlled seismic source technology was developed jointly to address environmental concerns by WesternGeco, a Schlumberger company, and Teledyne Bolt, the largest manufacturer and supplier of marine seismic data acquisition equipment. eSource uses a sophisticated mechanical filter to limit the high-frequency emissions that are believed to be the most disturbing to marine life. eSource reduces this unwanted source noise while delivering optimal imaging results and maintaining the lower frequencies that are critical to accurate seismic exploration. As part of the agreement for this joint development, the entire seismic industry and academia will be able to access the technology by purchasing eSource from Teledyne Bolt. Schlumberger deployed eSource for a total of 356 working days on three seismic surveys during 2017. The surveys in Western Australia, South Korea, and Malaysia covered almost 40,000 square kilometers. SCREEN PULSE Separator WellWatcher Permanent Monitoring Systems SCREEN PULSE fluid and cuttings separator is a simple retrofit installation delivering enhanced shale shaker performance while reducing the number of trucks required to haul away waste materials. While drilling onshore in the Shushufindi field in Ecuador, one of our customers discovered that the typical amount of fluid contained within drill cuttings was as high as 80% water content by weight. The high water content caused the volume of mud lost in the shakers to exceed 75 barrels per day, resulting in an increased number of trips to transport the drill cuttings for disposal. In addition, high volumes of diluted mud and mud from dewatering operations increased the amount of waste generated by the wells. SCREEN PULSE allowed the operator to reduce water content in the cuttings by an average of 15% to 29%, which in turn reduced the volume of cuttings transported for disposal. Reducing the volume of drilling waste lessoned the hauled waste from 80 loads to 57 loads, lowering the overall emissions footprint of the well. WellWatcher permanent monitoring systems integrate the most advanced permanent downhole measurement technology with surface acquisition and data communication systems to allow remote monitoring of wells and reservoirs in real time. The ability to transmit important well data such as pressure, temperature, density, and flow rates from remote locations via satellite, the Internet, or cable has the potential to reduce the number of physical visits to a wellsite and thus reduce the operator’s carbon footprint. In Nigeria, an independent operator developing a remote onshore oil field initially planned to send a technician to the wellsite every two months for manual data retrieval. Using our  WellWatcher permanent monitoring system to stream the data reduced wellsite visits from every two months to once every six months. Stewardship in Action: Environmental Engagement Schlumberger employees are involved in a wide range of workplace initiatives and community projects that help reduce environmental impacts. Over the years, our employees have championed multiple strategies to improve internal efficiency. These and other employee-driven programs to reduce energy consumption, water use, and greenhouse gas emissions are helping the Company achieve substantial financial and environmental savings. Recycling Lithium Metal Batteries Liquid cathode lithium metal batteries are commonly used in the oil and gas industry to power sensors used in downhole equipment. The batteries provide reliable power for a diverse range of equipment in the oilfield, even when exposed to challenging high-pressure and high-temperature conditions, but they need careful handling and dedicated, climate-controlled storage. All applicable Schlumberger locations have a Battery Safety Officer (BSO) responsible for safely managing this resource. In addition, batteries must be used in accordance with the Schlumberger Battery Manual.  At the end of their life, lithium batteries require special treatment. Schlumberger uses a waste contractor in Canada that has a patented process designed to capture and recycle more than 83% by weight of each cell it processes. The process neutralizes 100% of the hazardous components of each battery (including lithium metal and thionyl chloride), leaving only scrap commodities, which are sold, and no hazardous residual products. In 2017, more than 80 tonnes of Schlumberger batteries were received at this waste facility, thereby meeting regulatory requirements and ensuring full and sustainable lifecycle management. Tree Planting in Siberia More than 40 families of Schlumberger employees participated in a seminar about how to plant trees, how to care for them, and the impact that planting trees can have on the local environment, then planted 70 pine trees and 40 popular trees at the Schlumberger Siberian Training Center in Tyumen, Russia. In addition to having a positive impact on the environment, the event helped these Schlumberger families gain a better understanding of their ecological footprint.  Celebrating World Environment Day  Our Sub-Sahara Africa GeoMarket celebrated World Environment Day with numerous business units carrying out a variety of workshops and activities. These events included identification of environmental hazards; Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle challenges; tree planting sessions; and seminars focusing on climate changes and energy savings. Many of the outdoor activities aligned with the 2017 World Environment Day theme of “connecting people to nature.” Environmental Week in Malaysia   The Schlumberger Penang Product Center in Malaysia held an Environment Week to raise awareness of environmental issues. Through a series of engaging events, employees and their families were informed of the steps they can take to reduce their environmental footprint. Additionally, the World Wildlife Fund set up an exhibit to inform employees of current environmental issues within Malaysia. Achieving Energy Efficiency in Gabon  A Schlumberger employee in Gabon successfully initiated an exceptional energy savings program at a Schlumberger facility. The employee used a comprehensive plan to more effectively use air conditioning units, revamp the facility’s power subscriptions, and increase employee awareness of energy efficiency. Overall, the plan reduced the facility’s annual electricity costs by USD 200,000. Reducing Waste in Libya Employees at a Schlumberger facility outside of Tajoura, Libya, found a simple way to reduce the amount of solid waste generated in the facility. After an investigation revealed that 22% of the facility’s waste was from plastic and carton cups, the employees decided to purchase a personal mug for each employee and discontinue the purchase of disposable cups. This prevented the purchase and disposal of 60,000 disposable cups per year, reducing operating costs and environmental impact.  Solar Impulse Foundation Partnership   In 2017 Schlumberger became a partner of the Solar Impulse Foundation, which has set a goal of selecting 1,000 efficient solutions that can help protect the environment in a profitable way. The Solar Impulse Foundation was initiated by Bertrand Piccard, following the round-the-world journey of Solar Impulse, the first solar-powered airplane. Challenging conventional thinking, the Solar Impulse project resulted in major advancements in materials, lightweight technology, and energy efficiency, thus demonstrating the potential of clean technology and the need to keep innovating. Following this exploit, Bertrand Piccard launched the second phase of his action and established the World Alliance for Efficient Solutions with a goal of selecting 1,000 clean, efficient and profitable solutions. At the COP 24 event and beyond, Piccard will present these solutions to governments, corporations and institutions to encourage decision makers to adopt more ambitious environmental targets and energy policies. The solutions will be based on five of the 17 United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation); SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy); SDG 9 (Industry Innovation and Infrastructure); SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities); and SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production). “Today, 50% of the energy produced globally is wasted due to the old polluting devices we still use. This goes to show that the quest for efficiency is vital for all sectors. Schlumberger understood it better than other players in the oil and gas industry, making it a logical partner for the Solar Impulse Foundation and its ambition of selecting 1,000 solutions that are profitable to protect the environment.” – Bertrand Piccard, Chairman Solar Impulse Foundation 