Empowering Local Teams Scorecard Metric 2021 Status Ambition Countries in which we have a physical presence 79% 85% with local sustainability plans Workforce with positive perception of Schlumberger 72% 85% sustainability efforts1 Note 1: percent of positive responses from 2021 employee engagement survey. As part of our Reconciliation Action Plan focused on developing respectful relationships with Aboriginal Australian and Torres Strait Islander peoples, the Whadjuk People—the traditional owners of Noongar Land—led the opening ceremony of a new Schlumberger facility in Perth, Australia. LOCAL EXAMPLES OF RECENT SDG-ALIGNED INITIATIVES Target 1.5 Target 2.1 Disaster resilience Year-round access to nutritious food In Ecuador, we donated materials to local  In Mexico, suppliers to manufacture Schlumberger volunteers face shields. Approximately 4,000 face shields worked with one of our customers to design were assembled by Schlumberger volunteers and deliver food parcels to families in low-and distributed to local hospitals. The remaining income neighborhoods in our area of  8,000 were distributed across the rest of the operations, helping to provide local country by the local suppliers in coordination children with access to good nutrition. with local authorities. Target 3.3 End epidemics In France, Schlumberger engineers used in-house 3D printing capability to supply face masks and developed a door-opening device that removes direct contact with hospital door handles. Target 9.4 Upgrade with resource-efficient alternatives In 2020, we completed the final stage of a facility heating and cooling optimization project that began in 2017 across key facilities in Norway. The project required zero capex and has demonstrated almost 25% savings in utility costs and energy consumption across these facilities. Target 15.1 Sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems In India, employee volunteers, in  cooperation with a local nonprofit, helped plant 2,000 fruit-bearing trees on farmers’ lands near Pune in 2020 under the rural development program. In 2021 the team has planted 500 saplings so far in the Barmer region to support green belt development on public land. Target 4.3 Access to technical and vocational education In Iraq, Schlumberger NeXT, a training and competency solution, in partnership with the French Embassy, launched an employment and free education program, investing in technical competency development of students and professors from two universities in Basra. Target 10.2 Social, political, and  economic inclusion In Canada, we participate in Progressive Aboriginal Relations, a certification program that validates corporate performance in Aboriginal relations. Approximately 95% of all Schlumberger employees in Canada have completed indigenous awareness training. Target 16.5 Reduce corruption and bribery Local managers across the Middle East and North Africa formed a Field Conduct Group, facilitating roundtables with employees on local anticorruption issues, engaging with  customers, hosting anticorruption forums with key suppliers, and sponsoring surveys  to measure compliance culture. Target 5.b  Technology to empower women In the United States, the regional chapter of Connect Women, one of our global employee resource groups, is organizing STEM workshops and virtual mentorships for girls enrolled in the ChickTech: High School program. Target 11.4 Safeguard cultural and natural heritage As part of our  Reconciliation Action Plan focused on developing respectful  relationships with Aboriginal Australian and Torres Strait Islander peoples, the Whadjuk People—the traditional owners of Noongar Land—led the opening ceremony of a new Schlumberger facility in Perth, Australia. Target 17.6 Multistakeholder partnerships Since 2016, Schlumberger has been an Associate Member of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for advancing environmental and social performance. IPIECA brings together member companies from across the energy industry to collaborate on best practices and develop guidance aimed at driving measurable sustainable progress across environmental and social topics. Target 6.b Community participation in  water improvement In Guyana, we installed a closed-loop water recycling system at our largest facility to reduce disposal to sewers and conserve water. This reduced the impact to local water treatment systems and the annual need for 200 tote tanks. Target 12.5 Substantially reduce waste generation In 2020, in the United Arab Emirates, our learning center in Abu Dhabi finished its second waste conservation campaign that measures food waste from the cafeteria and challenges instructors and students from around the world to reduce their consumption. Since 2018, the campaign in the cafeteria has reduced average food waste per meal by 51%. Target 7.2 Substantial increase in renewable share In the United States, we back our Texas facilities with a Renewable Energy Certificate. As a result, the power used at these facilities, which constitutes ~20% of our total Scope 2 emissions, is directly correlated to renewable power projects. Target 13.2 Integrate climate action into planning In 2020, we began retrofitting our facilities in Europe for LED upgrades based on energy assessments of our UK facilities that highlighted the opportunity for LED upgrades. Out of  13 workshop facilities, 6 have been 100%  LED retrofitted. Target 8.8 Protect labor rights and safe, secure work In Brazil, we implemented a project-specific human rights plan for a subsea production systems project that included human rights self-assessments of higher-risk vendors and third-party assessments of our facilities and vendors in Brazil, Malaysia, and China. Target 14.2 Protect coastal ecosystems In Senegal, Schlumberger volunteers collected more than 600 kg of plastic waste from one beach in Dakar, in collaboration with a local public waste disposal company that recycled the waste. Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report The Board also manages risk in part through its oversight of the Company’s Executive Risk Committee (ERC). The ERC comprises top company executives from various functions, including the Vice President of Sustainability, each of whom supervises day-to-day risk management throughout the company. The ERC’s purpose is to identify those risks that have the potential to significantly affect our business over the short-, medium-, and longer terms—and  therefore to impact our strategic objective—and to implement appropriate mitigation measures. The ERC reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and to the Board, and annually presents to the Board a comprehensive report of its risk mapping efforts for that year. Additional information regarding the Board’s role in risk oversight including climate-related risk is included in our 2021 Proxy Statement (p. 14). The CEO and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) annually approve the capital  investment budget, including investments in technology to reduce emissions in oil and gas, and low-carbon businesses in the Schlumberger New Energy portfolio. The aggregate planned investment budget is approved by the Board. Reporting to the CEO, the Chief Strategy & Sustainability Officer (CSSO)  oversees our corporate strategy, sustainability, marketing, and investment activities. This position demonstrates how sustainability is at the core of our corporate strategy. The CSSO was involved in the launch of Schlumberger’s net-zero commitment and short-term, mid-term, and long-term targets spanning Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. Scenario analyses, including scenarios associated with climate change and the energy transition, are the responsibility of the CSSO. The VP of Sustainability, who reports to the CSSO, is directly responsible for social and environmental sustainability in the company and engages with Schlumberger leadership, employees, investors, and customers on sustainability, including climate-related issues. The VP of Sustainability leads the ERC. Strategy Our corporate strategy around climate is described in the “Taking Climate Action” section of this report (p. 5–11). Our focus includes Getting to Net Zero, investing in the energy transition, and managing climate and transition risk. We will achieve our net-zero ambition through three key components:  reducing operational emissions, reducing customer emissions that occur while using our technology, and taking carbon-negative actions of sufficient scale to offset any residual operational and technology emissions we may have in 2050. We will reduce emissions from our operations through utility efficiency and use of renewable energy and hybrid vehicles. We will reduce customer emissions with our Transition Technologies portfolio. For emissions that cannot be reduced, rather than relying on traditional offsets, we will rely on our carbon-negative actions that are technology-centric, where we can play  a role, such as carbon capture and sequestration (CCS). The second aspect of Taking Climate Action—investing in the energy  transition—involves our Schlumberger New Energy portfolio, which explores new businesses in low-carbon energy and storage, or carbon-neutral energy technologies such as CCS, geothermal power, geoenergy for heating and cooling, sustainable battery-grade lithium, and hydrogen as an energy carrier. Our main goal is to introduce breakthrough technologies in energy verticals beyond oil and gas, using our domain expertise in areas adjacent to our  existing activities where we can deliver at scale through our global footprint and execution platform. The third and last aspect of our Taking Climate Action strategy is managing climate and transition risk. We take a data-centric, scenario-based approach and use both TCFD and SASB as disclosure frameworks and methodology guides. Because we realize that climate change and the energy transition  will impact our business, understanding and managing those risks and  opportunities provides a competitive advantage that will help us be more resilient to potential risks and stay ahead of the competition. Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities To deliver our strategy, we consider short-, medium-, and long-term risks and opportunities per the following horizons: • Short term: With respect to unpredictable weather patterns including  cyclones, hurricanes, and tropical storms that have the potential to  affect our bases in coastal areas, we assess these risks on a 1- to 3-year timeframe. • Medium term: Schlumberger considers capital expenditures and operational planning, including development of new technologies that have the potential to reduce our customers’ greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, over a 3- to  10-year timeframe. • Long term: The Board and senior management take a longer view in  considering strategic planning, including climate-related risks and opportunities that have the potential to negatively or positively affect  our business over the medium term (3 to 10 years) and long term (10 to 20 years). Included in long-term risks are energy transition and climate change. Climate-Related Scenario Analysis Climate-related scenarios are an integral part of our scenarios-based portfolio strategy. We review different scenarios to evaluate our business resilience and confirm our portfolio’s alignment with our energy transition ambitions related to those scenarios. For example, both 2DS and IEA NZE were useful in understanding the role that CCS will play in the path to net zero. Although we have been in the carbon capture business for more than 15 years, the scenarios gave us confidence that the potential addressable market in carbon capture warranted continued investment and integrating that business into our Schlumberger New Energy portfolio. IHS and Rystad both had scenarios that informed our view of regional and local distribution of the energy mix and therefore influenced our specific regional technology strategies. Lastly, reviewing scenarios with a 2040-time horizon against those with a 2050-time horizon helped inform certain of our long-term portfolio mix decisions. We will continue to use scenarios to inform strategy and financial planning, using those that offer a range of time horizons, ambition with respect to transition, and varied perspectives to help us better understand the risks and opportunities that climate change and the energy transition present. We also will continue to review the accuracy of our scenario predictions in the aim of working from best available predictive information regarding the coming decades. Climate-Related Scenario Analysis Case Study In 2018, Schlumberger began working with a climate consulting firm to facilitate a climate assessment pilot program. We selected Norway, a region that is representative of our global operations and features a dynamic political and social landscape regarding climate issues. After a detailed evaluation of our operations in the region, our top climate-related risks and opportunities were identified, and scenario-based analyses were conducted to evaluate potential outcomes. This included both acute and chronic physical climate risks as well as potential risks and opportunities associated with the energy transition. In alignment with the TCFD recommendations, we used different forward- looking scenarios, including at least a two-degree scenario, for the assessment of Schlumberger’s climate-related risks and opportunities. The climate  scenarios used for analysis include IEA B2DS, RCP 2.6, and RCP 8.5. B2DS was chosen to represent the more ambitious transition scenario, whereas RCP 8.5 was chosen to represent the physical scenario with the worst  potential impacts on our activity. In particular, for the physical risk assessment, a regional climate model with a 12-km resolution was used. Time horizons considered were 2030 for transition risks, which is consistent with our  investment timeline, and 2050 for physical risks, which takes into account  the trends in chronic risks (e.g., sea-level rise). This pilot program found that some of our sites are at risk of coastal flooding over a long-term time horizon. Findings from this project were communicated to Schlumberger management and our Board and are further shaping our internal climate strategy. Following these findings, a decision was made  to review flood insurance and lease agreements for our Norway locations,  as well as perform a sea-level rise assessment across the entirety of the company for all locations potentially at risk of coastal flooding. More  information is available under “Climate Risk Assessments” in the “Risk  Management” section in this report. To reduce likelihood of further exposure, the following procedural  improvements were implemented: • All new facilities above a certain value are checked by an external  insurance partner for flood exposure. • Exposure to flood risk has been added to the checklist for purchasing  or leasing new facilities where flood risk is being assessed. • Facility construction guidelines and standard language have been updated to emphasize the importance of evaluating risk associated with climate change as part of the assessment. The assessment was completed in 2020. Impact of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities on our Strategy All of the scenarios we used in building our strategy allocate some share of the energy mix to oil and gas in the coming decades. Our strategy considers that there is a wide range of energy mix and pace of transition and as such, addresses opportunity across multiple time horizons. Regardless of the contribution of oil and gas to the energy mix, the industry needs to reduce the carbon footprint of operations in oil and gas, and therefore our strategy considers that as well. We recently launched our Transition Technologies, a portfolio of products and services focused on supporting customer climate  action through emissions reduction and energy consumption reduction: https://www.slb.com/transition-technologies. Additionally, we see opportunity in expanding beyond oil and gas, and in 2020 we introduced our Schlumberger New Energy portfolio of solutions including hydrogen, lithium, energy storage, CCS, geothermal power, and geoenergy for heating and cooling buildings. Facilities Management To reduce GHG emissions at our facilities, we are focused on reducing power consumption. We have set an initial target to reduce GHG emissions from  our fuel and power consumption by 30% by 2025. Our facilities’ initiatives  to reduce power consumption focus on educating our workforce on energy conservation best practices to promote behavior change, implementing renewable energy solutions at sites where feasible, updating HVAC systems and optimizing facility heating and cooling cycles, and strengthening our renewables strategy, targeting our facilities located on independent power grids. Transition Technologies Schlumberger is committed to developing innovative technologies aimed at enhancing oilfield efficiency, reducing exploration and production (E&P) costs, improving productivity, maximizing reserve recovery, and increasing asset value—while simultaneously driving sustainability and reducing impact. Our global network of Technology Centers positions Schlumberger to accelerate a diverse range of innovative technological approaches to support the energy transition. Our broad Transition Technologies portfolio includes a range of  impact-reducing options to help our customers decrease their emissions, reduce energy consumption, access low-carbon energy sources, and minimize overall footprint across the E&P value chain. In 2020, we invested USD 580 million in research and development across  our entire technology portfolio, and we continued to embed sustainability in our product and service development process. In 2021, Schlumberger increased transparency around the methodology used to both qualify and quantify our portfolio of sustainable technologies, specifically including our Transition Technologies portfolio focused on reducing emissions, as outlined at https://www.slb.com/transition-technologies. Additionally, the percentage of revenue derived from our low-carbon products and services was closely reviewed and an internal target was put in place to double the percentage of revenue from Transition Technologies by 2025 relative to 2020. More information about the solutions we provide and the impact they deliver is in the “Technology Use Emissions” section of “Taking Climate Action” in this report on p. 6. Solar Impulse Foundation Efficient Solutions Schlumberger became a partner of the Solar Impulse Foundation’s World Alliance for Efficient Solutions in 2017. The World Alliance for Efficient Solutions is working to select 1,000 technology solutions that protect the environment while maintaining profitability. When a solution’s technological feasibility, profitability, and environmental or socioeconomic benefit has been validated by subject matter experts, it receives an “Efficient Solutions Label.” Eight Schlumberger scientists and engineers have contributed expertise to this program by assessing submissions from other companies. To date, two Schlumberger innovations have been labeled as Efficient Solutions: • Celsius Energy is a heating and cooling solution based on renewable  underground geoenergy. • The THIOPAQ* biodesulfurization system uses a natural biologic system  to convert sulfur from oil and gas into usable products, including  agricultural fertilizer. Schlumberger New Energy We recognize that our future will expand beyond oil and gas with the ener.gy transition and are positioning ourselves for significant long-term growth opportunities. We launched Schlumberger New Energy in 2020 to explore new businesses in low-carbon or carbon-neutral energy technologies. Our approach is to apply our domain expertise in areas adjacent to our existing  activities and use our global footprint and execution platform to deliver at scale. We are using partnership models and our experience in technology industrialization to expand into energy verticals beyond oil and gas. As previously covered in this report, our diverse New Energy portfolio includes ventures in CCS, geothermal power, geoenergy for heating and cooling,  sustainable battery-grade lithium, and hydrogen as an energy carrier. Carbon Capture and Sequestration Schlumberger has been helping customers reduce emissions by providing  services and technologies for permanent underground sequestration of CO2 for more than 15 years. We have been involved in more than 80 carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS) projects around the world since 2005. In 2020, Schlumberger participated in 15 new CCUS projects. Schlumberger focuses on the challenges of storing underground the CO2 captured from power and industrial sources to help mitigate climate change and protect  the environment. Recently, Schlumberger New Energy began exploring ways to expand beyond our traditional offering and directly partner with emitters to assess, develop, and operate entire CCS value chains. The scope of collaboration goes beyond subsurface requirements and includes project economics, technology selection, business models, and permitting. We are designing new partnerships and business models with a focus on exploring and enabling low-cost projects  in strategic locations and creating partnerships with industry leaders seeking scale and efficiency by enabling CCS hubs. Schlumberger New Energy is partnering with leaders in a range of strategic sectors to demonstrate carbon solutions across a wide range of projects. Through our portfolio of CCS initiatives, we support businesses and  governments in facing today’s challenges of minimizing environmental impact while undertaking the transformations necessary to provide the global energy, materials, and infrastructure needed to sustain the growing societal demands of the future. Early this year Schlumberger New Energy announced two of these innovative partnership models: our collaboration in a feasibility study of capturing carbon from two cement plants, based in Europe and North America; and the  development of a first-of-a-kind bioenergy with carbon capture and  sequestration (BECCS) project designed to produce carbon-negative power while reducing emissions from the combustion of agricultural waste in  Mendota, California. Schlumberger also offers technologies for monitoring and verifying CO2 storage associated with enhanced oil recovery operations. For example,  we are providing CO2 monitoring services at the Farnsworth Field in Texas, where more than 1 million tonnes of CO2 from an ethanol plant in Kansas has been permanently stored underground through ongoing enhanced oil recovery operations. Geothermal Power Geothermal power is a sustainable and renewable energy source with unique advantages in the energy transition and for meeting the electricity demands of the future. Geothermal power uses the heat of the Earth to generate  electricity by tapping hot water and steam zones that are continuously  recharged naturally and by reinjection after heat extraction in the power plant. Success in any geothermal project requires an informed, interdisciplinary approach that combines innovative science and engineering with significant experience and hands-on project management. Leveraging our leading  capabilities for subsurface data analysis, our ability to develop optimized drilling plans, and integrated management and execution, the Schlumberger New Energy geothermal power ventures enable cost-effective geothermal development and improved success rates through technical consulting and innovative business models that maximize the value of geothermal resources and the power they produce. With decades of expertise in the geothermal sector, GeothermEx, a  Schlumberger company, provides the full spectrum of geothermal resource  development services—from exploration and drilling through analysis, resource modeling and management, financial modeling, and operational support. GeothermEx’s multidisciplinary approach has continuously served  the geothermal industry since 1973. Geoenergy for Heating and Cooling The Schlumberger New Energy venture Celsius Energy uses geoenergy  to provide heating and cooling solutions for new or existing construction, powered by the Earth. Leveraging Schlumberger’s extensive knowledge  of subsurface behavior, operational automation technology, and deep  science expertise, the Celsius Energy solution helps meet global goals  for reduced emissions. The first installation of the Celsius Energy demonstrator was completed in December 2020 at a Schlumberger manufacturing facility in France. This installation replaced the 60-year-old building’s heating and cooling setup with a renewable geoenergy source. The new Celsius Energy system has already delivered a 60% reduction in energy consumption and 90% reduction in CO2 emissions related to the heating and cooling of the building, which hosts 200 employees working in technology development activities. Sustainable Battery-Grade Lithium Demand for battery-grade lithium is projected to grow exponentially over the next decade. Because electric vehicles (EVs) greatly depend on lithium-ion  rechargeable batteries, sustainable and efficient lithium production has become an important topic not only for regions, industries and technology companies, but also for battery and large automotive manufacturers. While the lithium industry is expected to attract large investments, the time to first lithium production for new development projects and regions will be critical for the industry to meet the surge in demand. Focusing on the market’s growth potential, Schlumberger New Energy is taking a technology-driven approach that lets us explore new ways to produce and process high-purity lithium  with the entire production ecosystem in mind. This approach enables a cost-effective, sustainable, on-demand response to the growing high-grade battery-lithium market. As lithium supports the transition to a low-carbon economy, consumers are demanding the highest environmental standards  and compliance—so sustainability in the supply chain is crucial. NeoLith Energy’s sustainable approach uses a differentiated direct lithium extraction (DLE) process to produce high-purity, battery-grade lithium material while reducing the production time from over a year to weeks. The unique process is in sharp contrast to conventional evaporative methods of extracting lithium, with a significantly reduced groundwater and physical footprint. Hydrogen as an Energy Carrier Schlumberger New Energy is collaborating with strategic partners to  foster the new ecosystem needed to accelerate the development and  industrialization of affordable, clean hydrogen production. In a unique  private-public partnership model, Genvia combines Schlumberger’s expertise and experience with that of the French Alternative Energies  and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) and partners. The new venture will accelerate the development and the first industrial deployment of the CEA’s high-temperature reversible solid-oxide electrolyzer technology. The aim of the venture is to deliver the most efficient and cost-effective technology  for producing clean hydrogen, a versatile energy carrier and key component  of the energy transition. Genvia will orchestrate a series of demonstration projects with partners in different use cases for the industrial, energy, and mobility sectors. These demonstration projects will set the stage for the development of the entire value chain to use hydrogen as the preferred clean energy carrier. Risk Management The company’s risk identification is performed annually at two levels. The ERC performs a corporate-level risk mapping exercise, which involves the CEO  and several other members of senior management, and while maintaining oversight, delegates operational (field-level) risk assessment and management to the company’s various geographies, businesses, and functions. To the extent that the ERC identifies recurring themes from the operational risk  mapping exercises, they are acted on at the corporate level. Members of the ERC meet formally at least once a year, and more frequently on an ad hoc basis, to define and improve the risk mapping process, and to review and monitor the results of those exercises and those that have been delegated. We believe that our comprehensive risk assessment program is reasonably designed to identify and manage climate change-related enterprise-wide  risks that have the potential to significantly affect our businesses over the short, medium, and longer terms. Our risk assessments cover exposures  to both physical and transition climate-related risks and their respective financial impact. The climate-related risks we routinely monitor as part of this process  include loss of containment and well control, country-specific legislation and regulations, environmental compliance, financial risk associated with climate change, perception of industry due to climate change dialogue, and extreme weather. At a corporate level, business risks related to climate change are identified based on input from a variety of internal and external sources  (e.g., local risk assessment, country-specific climate assessments in line  with TCFD, customers, the Board, investors, and other stakeholder feedback). A corporate risk map is developed and reviewed with the CEO and his  leadership team. Climate change and energy transition are two enterprise- level risks. Enterprise-level risks are developed into various scenarios, guided by subject matter experts, and these scenarios are modeled to assess potential financial impacts. Results of any financial stress tests are discussed with our banks to assess liquidity needs over a three-year time span, along with probable effects on credit ratings and options to deal with each scenario. In the case of acute physical risk, crisis management scenarios are created and tested in desktop exercises at the local and corporate level by the respective management. At the asset level, risks are included in the operational risk maps, which help to identify and assess potential threats to the mid- to long-term strategic objectives of the various business units. These risks are monitored and embedded into the business planning cycle. Risks are scored on likelihood, severity, time horizon, and financial impact. Where applicable, management objectives are set to reflect completion of mitigation plans. Climate Risk Assessments Country-level climate risk assessments provide a practical way to understand climate-related risks and common issues across the organization. For these, we work with a leading sustainability consultant to review the impact of climate issues on our direct operations. Climate-related risks (physical and  financial, including transition risks) are assessed using scenario-based analysis. While there are country-specific concerns, some commonalities across  geographies are acute physical risks associated with extreme weather (e.g., storm surges, droughts, heat waves, flooding, rain, snow); chronic physical risks such as the potential impact of sea-level rise on our global footprint, water availability, and protected marine life; and transition risks such as policy and legal risks, the impact of a carbon tax on Schlumberger and our customers, the cost of electrifying our operations, and adapting our technology portfolio to changing customer preference. We have completed 75% of the work on our planned country-level climate risk assessments. The following case studies are examples of how we apply the learnings from these assessments: • Chronic Physical Risk Case Study: One country assessment indicated that 62% of our locations in that country could be exposed to coastal flooding due to sea-level rise by 2050. To address this risk, a decision was made—supported by the Board and Schlumberger leadership—to perform a scenario-based assessment across the entirety of the company for all locations potentially at risk of coastal flooding. This was completed in  2020 and mitigation plans were developed for all locations identified as having a potential future risk of coastal flooding (e.g., reviewing flood insurance and lease agreements), which constituted less than 1% of our global facility footprint. • Acute Physical Risk Case Study: Exposure to acute physical risk to  personnel, facilities, and assets is an existing risk in the Texas-Louisiana Gulf Coast region related to hurricanes and tropical storms. Approximately 5% of our facilities are located along the Texas-Louisiana Gulf Coast.  Mitigation actions related to this risk include annual reviews of crisis  management plans by the relevant management team; required virtual  hurricane awareness training for personnel, with an 87% current certification level as of August 5, 2021; and performance of tabletop drill exercises. • Transition Risk Case Study: Carbon tax represents a potential future  liability in 2030 in one of the countries assessed of USD 1.7 million to Schlumberger and more than 10 times that for our customers operating in that country. Given the potential global impact of a carbon tax, in particular the impact to our customers, we formalized regular carbon regulation  tracking with review by our Chief Legal Officer. Transition Risk Management Climate-related transition risks, such as policy and legal risks, include the potential impact of a carbon tax on Schlumberger and our customers, and technology risks, such as equipment obsolescence driven by our customers’ increased focus on emissions reductions and the associated costs to develop new technologies with a reduced environmental impact. Our Transition Technologies portfolio and Schlumberger New Energy business offer a strategic response to the management of energy transition risks, as discussed in the “Strategy” section of this report. To manage the relevant risks in our own operations, we continue to drive efforts to reduce our GHG emissions globally. Methane Reduction Methane emissions are the largest source of Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the oil and gas industry, and we believe Schlumberger can play a significant role in reducing oilfield methane emissions through the deployment of new digital technologies. To that end, Schlumberger recently launched a new Emissions Management business, which is focused on helping our customers measure methane emissions, reduce vented and fugitive methane emissions, and replace gas flares with gas-to-X technologies. Schlumberger offers an end-to-end service that includes advising operators on how to set material emissions reduction goals, measuring baseline emissions, recommending the most cost-effective blend of technologies to achieve those goals, performing the field work to implement their emissions reduction plans, measuring the  emissions reductions achieved, managing the resulting data, and finally  updating the plan to achieve additional reductions in the future. Additional details about our methane reduction initiatives are in the  “Technology Use Emissions” section of “Taking Climate Action” in this  report on p. 7. Physical Risk Management We review acute physical risks associated with extreme weather in areas susceptible to increased severity and frequency of extreme weather related to water (e.g., hurricane, excessive rain or flooding) or increased severity and frequency of extreme heat. Those variances may impact our business by causing extreme changes in precipitation patterns that may result in flooding, changes in road or wellsite conditions, or damage to facilities. This may result in increased operating costs or decreases in revenue through disruptions at our facilities, in our supply chain, or at wellsites; equipment damage and repair requirements; and increased insurance premiums. To manage extreme weather risks, we work with a third-party loss prevention firm to conduct site visits, assess potential risks to our facilities, and propose mitigating actions. We also consider the potential impact of sea-level rise on our global footprint. Additionally, Schlumberger has business continuity and crisis management processes in place to mitigate potential disruptions caused by extreme weather events. Additionally, our insurance policies help mitigate the risk of loss of assets at our facilities. Metrics and Targets Targets In June 2021, we announced our commitment to reach net-zero emissions  by 2050. This 2050 target is inclusive of all three scopes of emissions, and  is supported by a comprehensive near-term road map with the following interim milestones: • By 2025, a 30% carbon emissions reduction in Scopes 1 and 2. A portion of the 2020 short-term cash incentive compensation opportunity for our CEO and other members of our senior management was based on achieving an annual internal emissions reduction objective as part of this 2025 goal. • By 2030, a 50% reduction in Scopes 1 and 2. • By 2030, a 30% reduction in Scope 3. We aim to net the balance of emissions we produce in 2050 with carbon- negative actions. In December 2019, we became the first company in upstream E&P services to commit to setting a science-based target to reduce our GHG emissions, as defined by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). SBTi is a collaboration between CDP, the United Nations Global Compact, World Resources Institute, and World Wide Fund for Nature, and is one of the We Mean Business Coalition commitments. Our near- and long-term ambitions are grounded in climate science, and we have submitted our 2030 targets to SBTi and are working with them towards validation. 2020 Performance Data In preparation for the next phase of our decarbonization program, and in collaboration with a third-party climate change expert, we performed a  comprehensive review of Scope 1 and 2 emissions data and expanded our Scope 3 inventory to include Schlumberger emissions in all 15 categories defined by GHG Protocol’s Corporate Standard. Direct and indirect emissions presented in this report include restated figures from 2019, aligned with  SBTi criteria, which is the baseline year for our medium- and long-term  decarbonization goals. Restated 2019 figures exclude emissions related to  our North American fracturing business, which was sold at the end of 2020. We have also updated our Scope 1 liquid fuel conversion factor to a more comprehensive figure that includes all relevant GHG emissions, and we now include fuel and electricity supplied by customers at work sites in addition to quantities purchased directly by Schlumberger. This method is consistent for 2019 and 2020 GHG emissions in this report. Year-to-year comparisons are based on restated 2019 figures. Schlumberger business activity fell in 2020 in response to reduced demand for oilfield services and equipment as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Scope 1 emissions in 2020 were 1.13 million tonnes of CO2e, which is a decrease of 19% compared with 2019. Lower demand for field services and closure of some facilities reduced our consumption of liquid hydrocarbon fuels and natural gas. Vehicle and facility efficiency measures further reduced fuel demand. Scope 2 emissions in 2020 also decreased by 19%, to 0.51 million tonnes of CO2e. Scope 3 emissions fell by 27% in 2020, to 38.13 million tonnes of CO2e. Technology use-phase emissions associated with products sold and leased by Schlumberger, GHG Protocol scope 3 category 11 and 8 respectively, were the largest contributor to our GHG inventory. Product sales decreased in 2020 based on reduced demand from our customers. Indirect emissions from Purchased Goods and Services and Logistics (GHG Protocol scope 3 category 1 and 4) also fell as a result of efforts to manage cost, inventory, and  emissions within the 2020 business disruption. In 2020, we launched an initiative to better understand supplier emissions, with a goal of identifying practical ways to reduce our GHG inventory. We continuously monitor our GHG emissions data externally, and  PricewaterhouseCoopers provides a GHG emissions data audit biannually. “Schlumberger has taken a comprehensive assessment of emissions across all 3 Scopes, from their operations all the way through the value chain, to set science-aligned, absolute emission reduction targets based on the most robust available methodologies. These targets will drive strategy, demonstrating how Schlumberger takes responsibility for their own emissions while also influencing partners and enabling customers to decrease their own environmental impacts. This sector in particular needs more influential companies like Schlumberger to continue to raise the bar in terms of bold ambition that will drive technological innovation on a wider scale; we are excited to collaborate with Schlumberger to take their decarbonization strategy to the next level." William Theisen Head of Net Zero – Decarbonization Atos North America Facilities-Led Initiatives Our global Lean and Green environmental program has been in place since 2010 and focusses on facilities-driven environmental efficiency projects. In 2020, as a result of these efforts, electricity use decreased by 19% to 1,008,000 MWh from 1,248,000 MWh in 2019. Our electricity use data covers 100% of our business operations, including electricity supplied by our customers at remote work sites. The following are examples of our recent emissions-reduction  facilities initiatives: • We continued a program in North America for managing our utility  consumption and spend. Through this program, which currently covers  48% of our North American facilities, we use an online platform to track our utility usage, identify outliers and opportunities, and maintain proper reporting of energy, water, waste, and emissions. • In 2019, we installed solar panels on the roofs of three of our key  Schlumberger facilities in India and Egypt. We worked with local utility companies on the hardware installations, resulting in minimal capital  expenditures and a reduced rate for electricity. In 2020, these facilities continued to produce more than 1.4 GWh of solar power, resulting in  significant CO2 emissions reductions of more than 900 metric tonnes  of CO2e and approximately USD 200,000 in aggregate annual savings. • In 2020, we voluntarily purchased 100% Renewable Energy Certificate (REC)-backed power for all Schlumberger facilities in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) power market from new renewable electricity generation facilities. • In 2020, we finished upgrading our Sugar Land, Texas, campus to use LED lights. The entire campus of 16 buildings and surrounding exterior lighting now uses LED. The project is estimated to reduce nearly 900 tonnes of CO2e and save approximately USD 100,000 per year. • In 2020, we began retrofitting our facilities in Europe sites for LED  upgrades. Out of 13 workshop facilities, 6 have been 100% LED retrofitted. Our European locations have a clear energy management strategy to reduce consumption by 20% and focus on efficiency opportunities. • In 2020, our Iraq Sustainable Facilities Plan included reducing AC sizes  from 2 ton to 1 ton, replacing all florescent lights with LED lights in our  accommodations and office spaces, engaging workforce behavior to “switch off” when away from office, implementing a water treatment unit for camp water and sewage, and improving waste management practices by using water dispensers and reuse of personal water bottles. These  initiatives collectively helped reduce diesel consumption by nearly 50,000 gallons and therefore approximately 475 tonnes CO2e. • In 2020, our Mexico and Central America team initiated a sustainability roadmap focused on facilities rationalization and energy optimization. In 2020, their initiatives led to more than 500 tonnes of emissions  reduction. The energy optimization effort has since expanded to include plans to improve fuel efficiency, install onsite solar, and improve building energy efficiency. • In 2020, our global teams initiated a facility rationalization plan to optimize our global facilities footprint by consolidating several locations and  disposing facilities with minimum activity, which resulted in a reduction of 22,480 tonnes of CO2e in our global facilities’ GHG Scope 2 emissions.  This reduction represents almost 4% of our global facilities’ CO2 Scope 2 emissions baseline in 2019. Additional examples of facilities-driven initiatives, including water and waste reductions, are included in ESG Disclosures and Performance Data: Nature on p. 24. Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report In 2020, we expanded our environmental risk management program to  include a GHG emissions management component, which is used to assess the measurement, management, and mitigation of our Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. The program provides a management indicator on the maturity of our emissions-reduction programs across our business lines. In 2020, we successfully implemented our science-based emissions management program across all of our geographies and business lines, and will further develop it in 2021 and beyond. Our environmental risk management program includes several processes that provide assurance of internal conformance to our requirements and of external compliance to applicable regulatory requirements. These assurance processes are documented and subject to periodic internal review. The Schlumberger environmental risk management program has been developed to align with the requirements of our external stakeholders, including our customers and regulatory agencies in the countries where we operate. To support those stakeholders, we have developed our program to include the requirements of two recognized independent environmental management standards: the International Standards Organization (ISO) 14001:2015 and the environmental components of the International Finance Corporation (World Bank Group) Environmental and Social Performance Standards. Furthermore, a third-party organization has completed a review of, and has provided letters of assurance of, our program’s alignment to those two standards. The Schlumberger Environmental Management Standard includes the following risk-based controls applicable to our global operations: • Air emissions • Chemicals and materials management • Environmental competencies for key personnel • Environmental communications • Contractual environmental risk management • Ecosystems and biodiversity impacts and management • Environmental due diligence • Environmental impact assessment • Environmental risk identification and risk management • Environmental nuisance management • Resource management • Spill response and environmental emergency response • Waste management. To minimize, mitigate, and manage significant ecosystem and biodiversity impacts, Schlumberger has developed a risk-based procedure for the creation of ecosystem and biodiversity management plans to be applied to sites where relevant. These plans are designed to protect sensitive wildlife areas, flora and fauna, ecosystems, and conservation areas. They also seek to prevent  the introduction of invasive species, and they establish conditions to facilitate the rehabilitation or restoration of land areas impacted by Schlumberger  operations and project activities. The plans detail any local regulations requiring reporting on ecosystem and biodiversity management activities, which are periodically reviewed to ensure applicability. Schlumberger designs and manages its operations to minimize the impact  on ecosystems and biodiversity across the life cycle of each facility, activity, product, or service. Appropriate risk control levels are applied when  Schlumberger operates in environmentally sensitive areas, including areas that have the potential for significant wildlife loss or where operations could possibly introduce invasive species or could impact a large body of land or water. Furthermore, where applicable or appropriate, we aim to preserve  the indigenous vegetation of the land when we build worksites and use  native plants and species when rehabilitating worksites. Environmental impacts that require remedial or restorative work are reported, investigated, and reviewed in our HSE reporting system. Our ecosystem and biodiversity risk management processes and our environmental spill and emergency response procedures are designed to provide assurance that all required remediation and restoration activities occur concurrently with our operations, both at Schlumberger facilities and at our customers’ worksites. As far as reasonably practical, Schlumberger uses existing infrastructure to avoid or reduce the need for land clearance for construction. Where practical, new Schlumberger infrastructure is not placed in environmentally sensitive areas. The company strives to minimize environmental disturbance, restrict the movement of machinery and equipment during work activities, plan land restoration, and schedule activities that may cause disruption and disturbance to wildlife as appropriate to avoid sensitive periods of the year. Schlumberger’s environmental standard states that, unless impracticable, activities should be avoided in the following types of sensitive areas: • Conservation priority areas not currently under protection • Environmentally sensitive areas • Internationally recognized areas • Legally recognized areas • Sites located in, or adjacent to, protected areas of high biodiversity value • Areas with potentially significant biodiversity value that might be at risk  of adverse impact. Furthermore, before initiating any business activity, we develop a risk  assessment and evaluate potential impacts of current and planned  activities on biodiversity, in order to mitigate and monitor impacts throughout the contract life cycle. In designing Schlumberger facilities and worksites, we also seek to minimize the physical footprint of our activities and operations to reduce potential environmental impacts, particularly in environmentally sensitive areas. Protecting Wildlife Measures are taken to avoid interactions with wildlife within close proximity to activities or operations that could cause health and safety incidents or operational disruptions. Activities are also to be located, designed, and constructed to avoid disruption to wildlife movements or habitats. In locations where the risk of said impact cannot be eliminated, arrangements are made to accommodate movements to minimize potential harm. Invasive Species Measures are implemented to avoid the potential for introductions of invasive species, including the transportation of substrates (such as soil or plant materials) that may harbor invasive species. If we find that we have caused invasive species to be introduced, measures are taken to eradicate such species from the natural habitats. Rehabilitation and Restoration of Land Planning is undertaken to rehabilitate and restore land associated with our assets and infrastructure to either the original condition of the site prior to activities or a condition suitable for the land’s next intended use. Prevention and Management of Land Contamination During due diligence processes, a risk-based assessment is undertaken on acquisition of or entry to an asset to understand potential past and current impacts to soil and water bodies and any environmentally sensitive receptors. Minimum setback distances or restrictions are put in place for activity  infrastructure in proximity to flood-prone areas, watercourses, wetlands,  and individual and public water supplies. Land contamination is avoided by using ground protection measures, such as secondary containment or impermeable layers, during the disassembly of any surface facilities or equipment. Decommissioning and Abandonment Worksites that show visible signs of impact by hydrocarbon activities or are known sites of previous spills and releases have soil samples tested to show that the soil has been returned to ambient conditions with reports to the local regulatory authority, if applicable. All cuttings pits are closed per local regulations or in accordance with good international practices where regulations are not applicable. Metrics and Targets 2020 Performance Data As part of our ecosystem and biodiversity management plans, we have  a measuring and monitoring plan which includes but is not limited to: • Number and types of grievances raised by external stakeholders in relation to the actual or perceived adverse impact to land and biodiversity • Progress toward land restoration objectives • Incidences of soil or ground contamination • Evidence of positive contributions to conservation efforts, such as outreach programs, education, research, and proactive conservation actions • Allocation and protection of land within the contract area that has  been designated for biodiversity conservation and management • Evidence for incorporation of adaptive management of impacts  on biodiversity and ecosystems. Additionally, we track key environmental metrics internally through our  centralized HSE reporting system. Having transparency on this data  enables us to better manage our environmental impact. Below are some  of the metrics relevant to nature and biodiversity. Water Our water data covers 100% of business operations at our facilities and includes water used for domestic purposes, equipment cooling, equipment washing, manufacturing, and testing, but does not include water used in the delivery of our services at the wellsite. Water used at the wellsite in process.es such as drilling or pressure pumping are not included because this water is purchased, controlled, and accounted for by our customers. Our overall water use decreased to 4.65 million m3 in 2020 from 5.60 million m3 in 2019. This water decrease came primarily from business activity changes resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, Schlumberger generated 487,000 m3 of wastewater and recycled 187,000 m3, or 38%, of that wastewater. Waste Our waste data covers 100% of our business operations and includes waste from facilities, manufacturing, building, remodeling, and discarded sand from wellsite operations. We reuse materials when possible and continue to seek opportunities to reduce both our direct consumption of resources and the waste we generate. In 2020, as a consequence of business activity changes associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, our waste volume decreased  significantly, from 639,000 metric tonnes in 2019 to 140,000 metric tonnes. We recycled 31,000 metric tonnes, or 22%, of that waste, a slight decrease from the 2019 recycling percentage. Schlumberger is committed to managing and reducing waste materials and effluent discharges throughout our facilities, and we have set internal  objectives and targets focused on effluent management. Most Schlumberger sites have internal waste minimization plans, and certain sites are required to submit waste minimization and pollution prevention progress reports. Our waste suppliers are contractually required to comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local levels. We periodically audit our approved waste suppliers and we hold at least one annual environmental business review with our top suppliers. We reserve the right to conduct both audits and business reviews when or as frequently as necessary. Site Activity Schlumberger is an energy services company; therefore, the majority of  our business consists of providing products and services on our customers’ sites—which are not in our operational control. For our lump sum turnkey projects where, on behalf of our customers, we manage the operations at  rigs (including drilling, completions, cementing, fracturing, and decommissioning operations), in 2020 we drilled 443 wells (wellsites) with an average of  37 drilling rigs. Across our large footprint projects, Schlumberger drilled an  average of 18,000 feet per month in 2020. In 2020, Schlumberger used  a total of 40,437,930 m3 of hydraulic fracturing fluid in its global operations, 37,968,138 m3 of which relates to OneStim, a business line that we divested as of December 31, 2020. This figure includes water and chemical additives. Regarding diesel engines, at this time, we do not currently have plans to invest further in Tier 4 engines. Loss of Containment We have procedures in place reasonably designed to minimize, respond to, and control the environmental impact of uncontained spills at company worksites and at some third-party-controlled worksites. Our data for industry- recognized number of incidents greater than one barrel and hydrocarbon bulk fluid spills covers 100% of our business operations. In 2020, our industry- recognized number of incidents decreased to 26 from 28 in 2019. Our volume of hydrocarbons bulk-fluid spills decreased to 353 bbl in 2020 from 536 bbl in 2019. Our data for industry-recognized spills of hydrocarbon greater than 1 bbl over the past three years is shown in the following table: Year 2018 2019 2020 Number of Industry-Recognized Incidents 44 28 26 Volume (US Barrels) 522 536 353 Facilities-Led Initiatives Our global Lean and Green environmental program has been in place since 2010 and focuses on facilities-driven environmental efficiency projects. Some examples of projects targeting reduction in emissions, water, waste, and raw materials are: • We continued a pilot program in North America for managing our utility consumption and spend. Through this program, which currently covers  48% of our North American facilities, we use an online platform to track  our utility usage, identify outliers and opportunities, and manage reporting of energy and water usage, waste, and emissions. • In 2020, our Iraq Sustainable Facilities Plan implemented a water  treatment unit for camp water and sewage and improved waste  management practices by using water dispensers and reuse of  personal water bottles. This effort was in addition to HVAC upgrades  and LED installations. • In 2021, our Facilities function provided a capex fund for qualified  facility initiatives aimed at reducing environmental impact. More than  140 projects were submitted, and of these, 32 projects were selected  in 23 countries. More than half of these projects focus on Scope 2  reductions, but six key projects focus on water, waste conservation,  or both. Our Lean and Green environmental program reported a total of more than USD 500,000 of cost savings arising from 67 environmental efficiency  projects in 2020. Schlumberger Limited | 2020 Sustainability Report The formal listening program has resulted in key insights to reinforce areas of strength and to identify improvement opportunities so that we can deliver  an outstanding customer experience across all customer touch points. These new additions support our existing program of regular operational safety, reliability, and performance reviews at the local, regional, and global levels. In 2020, we set a new record in safety and service quality performance for a third consecutive year despite the operational challenges caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Employees Schlumberger employed approximately 86,000 people representing over  160 nationalities at year-end 2020. Our employees are the most professional women and men in the oil and gas services industry, so we consider them to be the most credible ambassadors of Schlumberger and one of the company’s most important stakeholder groups. Therefore, engagement with our employees is used to develop internal policies, standards, and processes. Annual Engagement Survey We conduct an annual employee engagement survey to measure workforce engagement and general understanding and perception of our strategic initiatives. Our 2020 survey had a 90% participation rate, compared with an average of 81% for other companies. Our engagement index remained flat compared to 2019, despite the challenging 2020 environment, which translated to Schlumberger increasing its rank from the third to the second quartile of participating companies. Performed by Schlumberger The Performed by Schlumberger (PbS) program engages employees by  recognizing Schlumberger team members who have demonstrated exceptional levels of teamwork, innovation, and business impact for the company and its customers. The PbS program not only encourages excellence in Schlumberger, but also recognizes and promotes cross-departmental teamwork throughout the company, further encouraging engagement. The highest honor is the  CEO Award, which is presented in three categories: Customer Performance, Operations Excellence, and Innovation. Winning projects have created  substantial business impact and strengthened our culture of excellence.  In 2020, there were a record 880 PbS submissions, a 48% increase over 2019. Schlumberger Active Campaigns Schlumberger has initiated a series of health campaigns to encourage  employees to be more physically active. For example, our Active campaigns encourage employees to track and share their fitness-related activities through an internal Schlumberger app. The app includes a leader board with recognition badges to incentivize employee engagement through friendly and healthy competition. Employees are also encouraged to share stories and  pictures of their activities on an internal social networking platform. The app is used in more than 60 countries across all continents where we operate, with more than 5,000 Active app unique users worldwide. Although the Active campaigns were primarily focused on employee health, they also encouraged our team members to be more actively engaged in all aspects of HSE. In 2020, the Active app was used to provide employees with appropriate information and recommendations on how to stay well and  active when working from home—such as by providing videos of wellness techniques and home workouts for a range of fitness levels. The use of innovative technology solutions has encouraged personnel to access other HSE-related apps more actively, and the teamwork aspects of these campaigns have led to a healthy competition between Schlumberger locations regarding other aspects of HSE. Communities We strive to avoid harm to people, make a marked and positive impact  wherever we work, and partner with our customers to support a stable operating environment in which communities and the energy industry can prosper. Schlumberger focuses on understanding and managing the impacts of our operations, business relationships, and supply chain on people and society. Schlumberger trucks and equipment are often the most visible aspect of our presence in these communities, and our impact is frequently measured by local populations in increased potholes, dust, and traffic noise. Our direct impacts on local economies can be measured in taxes, wages paid to local workers, promotion of our strong health and safety culture, social programs, and the wide range of initiatives we undertake to build supply chain capacity in communities. The Schlumberger commitment to contribute to the development of communities worldwide is outlined in our Code of Conduct. We support and encourage a range of social programs informed by local issues—many of which are sup.ported by employee volunteers—in line with our commitment to fulfill our contribution to the UN SDGs. The SDGs provide countries and businesses with a consistent framework to align social and environmental programs to meet local and business needs and to focus sustainability efforts on the ground. To inform that focus, we have mapped SDG gaps by country for all countries where we have a physical presence. These gaps were assessed based on input from local teams,  publicly available data, and interviews with local external stakeholders, including community representatives. Since 2014, Schlumberger’s Social Investment Management Guidelines have supported Schlumberger operations by planning, designing, implementing, overseeing, and disseminating social programs at the country and business level. By engaging with customers, local authorities, and community  representatives to provide insights on local needs, resources, and systems and focusing on issues that matter locally, we are able to leverage our  experience and resources to establish partnerships, empower communities, and drive positive impact that meets the expectations of all our stakeholders. Investors Schlumberger maintains the highest standards of transparency in disclosing information about the company to investors. We believe these efforts help investors make objective financial decisions as well as judgments about our performance around environmental, social, and governance issues. In 2020, our work to keep investors informed was acknowledged by Institutional Investor when Schlumberger was once again recognized in their All-American Executive Ranking as a Most Honored Company, Best CEO, Best CFO and Best Investor Relations. Schlumberger uses many avenues to engage investors who seek perspective on the company, such as • At speeches and conference presentations where Schlumberger’s CEO and senior managers explain our corporate strategy and the technical means by which we are carrying it out. • Conference calls that follow each quarterly earnings release provide  context and color around our financial and operating results, and we  answer questions from institutional investors and analysts. • ESG-focused investor meetings provide investors with annual updates  on our sustainability focus and progress. • Face-to-face meetings at conferences and at Schlumberger and investor offices create the personal contact essential to investors’ understanding  of the company. • Tours of company facilities worldwide—including North America, the  Middle East, and Europe—provide investors with first-hand experience  of our operations. • Our Investor Relations website offers complete financial performance data, archived press releases, replays of conference calls, and our annual report and proxy statement. • Senior Investor Relations staff members respond promptly to market  inquiries. • Through our annual Sustainability Report, we update investors on  our environmental, social, and governance performance, initiatives,  and progress. Face-to-face meetings and company site tours were postponed beginning  in early 2020 and throughout 2021 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Industry Schlumberger manages and coordinates active relationships with numerous industry organizations. Most notably, we are members of the Energy  Workforce & Technology Council (formerly PESA and AESC), American Petroleum Institute, Society of Petroleum Engineers, International Association of Oil & Gas Producers, and IPIECA. Schlumberger senior executives serve on the boards and advisory committees of these organizations. We hold nonpolitical positions and adhere to a do-not-lobby policy. As a result, these organizations frequently call on us for technical advice and guidance. Additionally, since 2018, Schlumberger has been an active member of the Permian Strategic Partnership, a coalition of leading Permian Basin energy companies that works in partnership with leaders across the region’s  communities to address current and future challenges. Areas of focus include making roads safer, improving education, upgrading healthcare, increasing affordable housing, and training the next generation of workers. Schlumberger has been active on the education and housing committees, focusing on expanding and strengthening the teacher talent available to Permian public school students. This supports the development of strong public school leaders and enhanced strategic planning, innovation, and execution while building local partnerships. Governments and Policy Makers Government and regulatory officials and other policy makers seek out  Schlumberger domain experts for their knowledge of and experience in many aspects of the oil and gas industry. Although the company is politically neutral and does not lobby, we often provide technical support to regulatory officials who are interested in gaining practical understanding of the technologies and processes that can reduce emissions and our industry’s carbon footprint. Schlumberger experts are widely consulted on a variety of technical topics, and we engage with policy makers in a variety of non-political capacities, such as: • We are sponsors and active participants in the National Academy of  Sciences Roundtable Project on Unconventional Hydrocarbon Development. • We are a founding member of the Global CCS Institute and have participated in numerous international meetings. • Through our relationship with the Energy Workforce & Technology Council (formerly PESA and AESC), twice a year Schlumberger trains Foreign Service Officers from the US State Department on how the energy industry can best work with local communities to drive engagement and value. • We are a founding member of the OPEC Fund for International  Development’s Energy Access Program and continue to engage  with the program as its mission and associated projects evolve. • We are members of the Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summits Global Advisory Board, which has oversight on the topics, guest speakers, and  other activities associated with the Bloomberg Sustainable Business  Summits globally. • We are a member of the National Petroleum Council (NPC), which provides advice on energy sourcing and energy security to the US Department  of Energy. • We actively participated in the NPC’s CCUS study requested in 2017 by the US Secretary of Energy to provide analysis on the potential of, and challenges associated with, CCUS technology and infrastructure. The report was finalized and published in 2019. • We actively participated in the NPC’s supplemental assessment to its  Arctic Potential report requested in 2018 by the US Secretary of Energy  to reassess the 2015 study and provide views on how the current  regulatory environment could be enhanced. The report was finalized and published in 2019. • We actively participated in the International Energy Agency’s workshop  on methane policy and regulation in 2020, focusing on the potential for  new technologies to measure and reduce methane emissions. • We support The Center for Strategic and International Studies and  Resources for the Future. Additionally, we work with various think tanks and nongovernmental  organizations—some of which influence policy—to drive ESG change  across our industry. These include: • Solar Impulse Foundation • SINTEF LowEmission Centre • Columbia University SIPA’s Center on Global Energy Policy • Rice University’s Baker Institute for Public Policy • Rice University’s Baker Institute of Public Policy Carbon Capture in Texas Working Group • Stanford University’s Natural Gas Initiative • Stanford University’s Center for Induced and Triggered Seismicity industrial affiliates program • World Petroleum Council • Carbon Capture and Storage Association. Suppliers We want our suppliers to understand our sustainability focus so they can identify, assess, and respond appropriately to supply chain sustainability  risks. Engaging with suppliers on sustainability issues is integrated into communication plans and often works most effectively through a blend of channels, including the tender process, kickoff meetings, quarterly business reviews, supplier forums, trainings, and written communications. Our  sustainability engagement efforts focus on continuously improving our  suppliers’ performance in relation to worker welfare, conflict minerals,  keeping people safe, and tackling environmental risks. As part of our net-zero commitment and to help us better manage the  environmental footprint of our supply chain, we engaged CDP Supply Chain  in 2021 to work with 500 of our logistics and purchased good and services suppliers on emissions disclosure. These 500 suppliers represent approximately 3.4million tonnes of CO2e of our Scope 3 emissions. Key Suppliers In 2020, Schlumberger introduced a supplier segmentation program to categorize suppliers by commercial importance. Our Supplier Management (SM) Level 1 suppliers represent the most commercially important suppliers to Schlumberger, with a corresponding full management model. SM Level 3 suppliers are tail-end suppliers with a basic management model. We further classify suppliers as “critical” if they provide materials, components, or services that may significantly influence one or more aspects of  Schlumberger products and service performance. This includes elements  such as safety, technology, and competitiveness, as well as compliance  with operations integrity, HSE, and ethics standards. We conduct routine audits of our critical suppliers, which may incorporate supplier performance, finance, contract, HSE, quality, and ethics and  compliance components, including human rights and labor questions.  All suppliers, contractors, and agents must be approved and managed  in accordance with internal requirements. 2020 Suppliers Number of Total Suppliers with spend in 2020 40,200 Number of Critical Suppliers 759 Percentage of Total Spend on Critical Suppliers 10% Number of SM Level 1 Suppliers 1,555 Percentage of Total Spend on SM Level 1 Suppliers 36% Keeping People Safe in our Supply Chain Schlumberger contactors in 2020 had over 368,500 valid training certifications registered in the company’s online QHSE business system. Applicable  contractors are included in our New Employee Safety Training (NEST)  program, which provides critical safety training to manage new employees’ increased HSE risks. We also have specific NEST trainings for short-term contracted employees. Additional details about our HSE training programs  are in the “HSE Training” section (p. 38). Supply Chain Training The global nature of our business and the size and geographical diversity of our supply chain present several challenges. Success in engagement depends on having supply chain professionals capable of dealing with our complex  operations. To enable a strong pipeline of people who have these skills, Schlumberger has partnered with top-tier supply chain training  programs to assist our team members in geographies where supply chain training is not widely available. Team members are selected to learn and  build expertise with the intention of returning to their markets and increasing the level of supply chain performance. 