SustainabilityGovernanceDriving good governance through accountability and oversightNOMINATING AND GOVERNANCE 
COMMITTEE OF THE SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED BOARD OF DIRECTORSOversees SLBÕs sustainability programs, initiatives and 
activities including acute and chronic climate risksWe have embedded the management of sustainability risks and opportunities at all levels of our company, including robust and.effective Board oversight. CHIEF STRATEGY AND 
SUSTAINABILITY OFFICERReporting to the CEO, is the owner 
of our sustainability strategySLBÕs executive management team is responsible for the development and implementation of our sustainability strategies and programs, with the oversight of our Board.of Directors (Board) and its committees. Our.Chief Strategy and Sustainability Officer (CSSO), a member of our executive leadership team, ensures that sustainability is at the core of our corporate strategy. The Vice President of Sustainability, who reports to the CSSO, is.directly responsible for SLBÕs social and environmental sustainability and engages with SLB leadership, employees, investors, and customers on sustainability topics, including climate-related risks and opportunities. Our line management is directly responsible for the management and mitigation of the environmental impact of our operations, with our environmental management systems and standards being the responsibility of our Vice President of HSE. To support our sustainability governance processes, we have identified sustainability champions for each geography to define and develop our local sustainability strategies. These champions are responsible for planning and implementing their local annual sustainability plans and net-zero road maps, and for establishing accountability in delivering these plans. They act as enablersÑengaging with our local teams to develop sustainability projects and better integrate sustainability into operations. They are also responsible for the Sustainability Impact Awards for their respective geographies.Board Oversight of SustainabilityThe Board and its committees oversee the performance and management of various environmental, social, and other sustainability issues, including our energy transition strategy, emissions reduction targets, climate change, sustainability reporting, workforce health and safety, human rights, diversity, equity and inclusion in our workforce, and ethics and compliance. For example: .The Board oversees SLBÕs long- and short-term strategy, including monitoring portfolio advancements that focus on decarbonizing our Core businessesÑsuch as our Transition Technologies and emissions monitoring portfoliosÑas well as our SLB New Energy investments in low-carbon and carbon-neutral energy technologies. The Board oversees SLBÕs roadmap to reach its 2050 net zero commitment that is inclusive of Scope 3 emissions and includes interim Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions reduction milestones..The Board also oversees SLBÕs enterprise risk management process, as discussed under TCFD Risk.Management below, and reviews major risks facing SLB, including geopolitical risks, acute and chronic climate risks and energy transition risks. .The Nominating and Governance Committee oversees our sustainability programs, initiatives, and activities, and receives regular updates from senior management on the progress we are making towards a low-carbon future. This committee also monitors and reviews the effectiveness of SLBÕs Ethics and Compliance program, including our Code of Conduct and all significant compliance allegations..The New Energy and Innovation Committee provides insights on the growth potential, maturity and viability of SLBÕs targeted New Energy business sectors, and validates the sustainability impacts of growth opportunities. .The BoardÕs other committees oversee sustainability-related topics within their respective areas of responsibility, such as the incorporation of sustainability and diversity metrics into our short-term incentive compensation programs (Compensation); the conduct of sustainability-related reviews by our internal audit team (Audit); operational risks such as cybersecurity (Audit); the disclosure of ESG risks (Audit and Nominating and Governance, jointly); and the development of our sustainable finance strategy, including financial instruments with rates linked to climate commitments (Finance).Integrating Sustainability in Management.Compensation All of our named executive officers had strategic personal objectives related to sustainability, SLB New Energy, or HSE performance.goals. For details about these objectives and a description of our executive compensation program see the 2023 proxy statement.here.In addition, in 2022, key populations across SLB management were assigned sustainability personal objectives focused on reducing Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions in our field operations and facilities, customer avoided emissions, sustainability planning and.supplier.disclosure. VICE PRESIDENT 
SUSTAINABILITYDevelops, drives and operationalizes 
the overall sustainability strategySUSTAINABILITY TEAMBASINSDIVISIONS & TECHNOLOGY TEAMSHUMAN RESOURCES, FINANCE, LEGAL, ETHICS 
& COMPLIANCE, 
HSE, PLANNING 
& SUPPLY CHAINEthics and 	ComplianceIn 2022, we received
a total of 866 E&C reports2022 Trainings96% completion rate for updated Professionalism and Respect in.the Workplace.training 94% completion rate for annual E&C.training (managers) 93% completion rate for annual E&C training (non-managers and applicable contractors) 67%of these online through EthicsLine17%internally through our QUEST reporting system Our Sustainability program is rooted in our long-standing commitment to effective corporate governance and business integrity.8%through the externally hosted EthicsLine telephone line Fair and Open Business Practices 
Represent Who We AreAs we work together with our partners and stakeholders to deliver extraordinary results for a sustainable future, we.will always put ethics, compliance, safety, security, and humanity at the heart of everything we do. Our reputation for integrity and fair dealing is vitally important in winning and retaining the trust of our stakeholders. When we are clearly seen to behave in an ethical manner, we enhance our reputation for integrity, which helps us attract and retain customers, employees and investors.Through SLBÕs Ethics and Compliance (E&C) program, we maintain zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, and expect the same from our contractors, suppliers, partners, and agents. We require that they comply with the laws of the countries in which they operate and that they act in a socially responsible and ethical manner consistent with our Code of Conduct and our anticorruption policies. All suppliers, contractors, partners, and agents must be approved and managed in accordance with internal requirements, including through denied party screening. We also conduct audits to promote and monitor compliance with these requirements. Finally, we support responsible sourcing of materials from suppliers that share our values, as discussed below under Responsible Supply Chain.We use a risk-based approach to process agents and suppliers through compliance due diligence using the Dow JonesÕ Risk Center Third Party Platform, both before they can be approved for use and through continuous monitoring. Allegations and Grievance ReportingSLB maintains a robust allegation and incident review program, which supports independent review of grievances, as outlined in our Code of Conduct and our.Human Rights Position Statement. Our allegations program, as outlined in our Allegation Reporting and Management Standard, sets out our detailed grievance response procedures, including assessment, investigation and remediation requirements, as well as a clear prohibition on retaliation. Reports of ethics and compliance-related allegations are.sent to the E&C Department, who then alerts the relevant functionÕs management. In 2022, we added a new category in our allegations classification system to report and clearly identify ÒHuman RightsÓ allegations.Any employee who deviates from our Code of Conduct, company requirements or applicable law, could be subject to discipline. We have adopted a Progressive Accountability Guideline as a fair and consistent system for assessing disciplinary actions for individuals who violate the rules.As of December 31, 2022, the annual E&C training completion rate for managers was 94% and 93% for non.managers (including applicable contractors). Professionalism and Respect 
in the Workplace InitiativeIn 2022, we launched a company-wide refresh of our Professionalism and Respect in the Workplace training. We enhanced the training by adding new leadership messages illustrating the importance of casting the right shadow, additional practical scenarios to combat the wrong behaviors in the workplace, and translations into additional.languages.This investment in such a wide scale campaign illustrates our firm stand: we believe that a culture of diversity and inclusion is not just the right thing to doÑit is a business imperative. See here for additional information 
and our policies8%via other reporting methodsBasin Field Conduct Groups in several locations ensure a regional focus on compliance matters at the field operations level and provide effective support for the implementation of the E&C program.Stakeholder
	EngagementStakeholder engagement is critical to supporting our sustainability strategy. By actively listening to stakeholder feedback, we gain valuable insight that helps us manage sustainability risks, align our business processes with local and national priorities, needs and expectations, identify new business opportunities, maintain our social license to operate, and increase the productivity of our workforce.COP 27The SLB executive team attended COP 27 to discuss and help plan a global response to the global climate emergency. CEO Olivier Le Peuch joined government officials, the Oil & Gas Climate Initiative Executive Committee, and Technip Energies on the panel ÒFrom.Commitments to Action: The Oil & Gas IndustryÕs Decarbonization JourneyÓ on.Decarbonization Day.Employees One Young World SummitIn 2022, four junior SLB engineers attended the One.Young World Summit in Glasgow which identifies, promotes and connects the worldÕs most impactful young leaders to try and create a better world, with.more.responsible and effective leadership. Eureka Sustainability CommunityOur Sustainability Community is an open forum 
for our people to discuss, address, share ideas and raise concerns related to environmental, social and governance issues. Members provide content such 
as webinars, podcasts, newsletters and infographics to increase awareness, promote local action and share success stories. It represents the employee grassroots thinking on sustainability. The community doubled in size.in 2022 to approximately 2,500 members. Engage to ExcelWe conduct an annual engagement survey worldwide to measure workforce engagement, employee experience and employee perception of our strategic initiatives we implement in the organization. For 2022, the response for whether or not the employee felt SLB was committed to sustainability received a 75% positive rating. This program acts as the cornerstone and principal element of our Òvoice of employeeÓ digital listening strategy. Our 2022 survey had a 91% participation rate. This participation remains high compared with an average of 81% from the external benchmark. Our Engagement Index improved from 67% in 2021 to 70% in 2022. Through this positive result, SLB keeps progressing toward our goal of becoming a top quartile engagement company by 2025. Since the feedback was shared with all employees in the company in July, more than 10,000 action plans have been created. Our teams are progressing with implementation to improve employee experience and increase engagement levels in 2023. Volunteering In 2022, we operationalized our first global volunteering guidelines. Volunteering is a vehicle for sustainable development and SLB employees have a variety of personal and professional skills that they can share with the communities where they work and live. The purpose of our community volunteering program is to: .engage employees by encouraging them to share their skills and expertise with recognized organizations as a means of making a positive social impact.support society and communities with their priorities, related to the UN SDGs, in the context which SLB operates in .support communities that are impacted by disasters.In 2022, we captured more than 2,300 volunteering days through our global time tracking tool. Training in SustainabilitySustainability training pathways have been developed and are accessible to all our employees through our learning platform Degreed. In 2022, we launched two major sustainability-focused training pathways: Taking.Climate Action and Transition Technologies. In.addition, SLB teams have embedded sustainability online training requirements to their compulsory fixed step learning program, ensuring we progressively upskill our entire workforce. During our 2022 Energy Transition week for employees, our leadership team discussed our strategy for decarbonization focused on our three engines of growth: our Core, Digital, and New Energy businesses.In addition, in 2022, we brought together nearly 50 employees representing different functions from all over the world in sustainability-focused workshops, to.discuss what sustainability means for SLB; help outline our strategy for 2025 and 2030 for our key priorities; understand how we can operationalize all aspects of sustainability; and map our key enablers and accelerators, as well as ways to measure performance. 
Learn more here.Customers Enhancing Customer ExperiencesIn SLB, understanding our customersÕ needs and expectations while working for mutual value is instrumental. We seek to create an outstanding customer experience throughout the customer buying journey to become their partner of choice. This is key in differentiating ourselves from our competition. Part.of providing an outstanding customer experience is having open and professional discussions with our customers regarding our challenges. This helps our customers recognize the value we are bringing and the decisions we.may need to make along the way.How do we measure performance for our customers?.SLB has a Corporate Management System that encompasses both our Quality Management System and HSE Management Systems.we have an Operations Integrity function that supports the global performance measurement of quality related to our key performance indicators.we use an internal system called QUEST to track quality non-conformances, lost-time, action items, and.remedial work plans. Digital ForumThe SLB Digital Forum 2022 attracted a record number of participantsÑmore than 1,250 people, representing 66 nationalitiesÑour most comprehensive program to date. We involved 22 partners and 14 plenary speakers, including Microsoft Chairman and CEO Satya Nadella and Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin Nasser.The forum also included a five-track leadership program featuring over 25 industry leaders, more than 160 technical presentations, and an immersive exhibitionÑ
all of which made for a rich program of latest thinking, insight, and technology for accessing energy and accelerating sustainability goals.The event theme was ÒConnecting for a New FutureÓ, and.many industry collaborations were announced at the Forum. We saw the announcement of new collaboration with Saudi Aramco on a sustainability platform, and partnerships with Cognite and Sensia for a production data platform and digital solutions. See our 2022 Annual Report for additional information.We also saw launches of the Enterprise Data Solution for subsurface, hosted on Microsoft Energy Data Services, the Digital Platform Partner Program, Drilling Infinity Loop, ProcessOpsª on Delfiª, Neuroª autonomous solutions, and Agile Reservoir Modeling, all while achieving a Certified Carbon Neutral event. Investors 2022 Investor DayOn November 3, we held our first Investors Conference under our new SLB brand name in New York City. This was a unique opportunity to tell the investor community our story as a global technology company focused on driving energy innovation for a balanced planet.In his opening keynote speech, our CEO Olivier Le Peuch presented the main theme of the conference, centered on.rising to a bold challenge: providing reliable, accessible, and affordable energy while rapidly decarbonizing for a sustainable future.Bell Ringing at NYSE In November, our CEO and executive leadership team rang the bell at the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) to.celebrate our 60th anniversary of listing on the NYSE, as well as the launch of our new identify, strategy, and culture. The bell ringing honored the powerful legacy of our company while also focusing on our future and our.vision. Universities Our university engagement initiatives play a key role in our recruiting and sustainability strategies. Through these collaborations, we support education and research in STEM subjects, and we attract talented diverse graduates of local universities from the countries in which we work.Governments and Policymakers Government and regulatory officials and other policy makers seek out SLB experts for their knowledge of and experience in many aspects of the oil and gas industry. Although we are politically neutral and do not lobby, we often provide technical support to regulatory officials who are interested in gaining practical understanding of the technologies and processes that can reduce emissions and our industryÕs carbon footprint. We have a policy prohibiting lobbying; expenditures for lobbying purposes in 2022 were zero. Additionally, we work with various think tanks and nongovernmental organizationsÑsome of which influence policyÑto collaboratively drive sustainability across our industry.By acting now and acting collaboratively, 
we can all create a better future.Our commitment to stakeholdersSLB strives to maintain and grow the trust and confidence of our customers and shareholders as well as all other stakeholders affected by our operations. When we clearly behave in an ethical manner, we enhance our reputation as a partner, employer, and community member.Stakeholder Engagement continuedÒThe Ipieca principles are an important landmark for SLB and 
the energy industry as we accelerate action to drive sustainability impacts and meaningfully contribute to both the UN SDGs and the goals of the Paris Agreement..Respecting and operationalizing the Ipieca principles 
is one way we bring our corporate purpose to life, 
creating amazing technology that unlocks access 
to energy for the benefit of all.Ó 	Mikki Corcoran, 	VP SustainabilityCustomer satisfaction score69.2 According to the latest report published by The Wall Street Journal, SLBÕs score for customer satisfaction jumped 22.8 points to 69.2, registering the largest increase among the companies assessed by the Drucker Institute based on the 2021-2022 data. 
Learn more here.Stakeholder Engagement continuedIN FOCUSPartnershipsSolar Impulse Foundation ÒToday, 50% of the energy produced globally is wasted due to inefficiencies and outdated technology. This goes to show that the quest for efficiency is vital for all sectors! SLB understood it better than other technology players in the energy industry, making it a logical partner for the.Solar Impulse Foundation.Ó 	Bertrand Piccard, 	Chairman of the Solar Impulse Foundation	IN FOCUSKey Industry Associations 	Ipieca	UN Global Compact 	World 50 	USAÕs National Petroleum Council (NPC) Committee on GHG Emissions	Energy Workforce and Technology Council 	IOGP 	World Economic Forum SLB has a longstanding commitment to sharing best practices and our HSE technical expertise through industry associations. We have active relationships in numerous industry organizations, through which we collaborate to make improvements in our own operations, while also moving the industry forward.UNIVERSITY NUMBERS2022 University Interns	 737 Recruiting Job Applications (approximate) ~203,000 Number of Countries 
Recruited In 87 Number of Universities Recruited At 723 Responsible Supply ChainWe work with our suppliers in a socially responsible and ethical manner and are continuously seeking ways to improve how we manage our business. Our focus is effective planning, and procurement and delivery of the right products and services to our operations. Additionally, we leverage our expertise and scale to promote sustainability with our suppliers and partners. In support of our ambitions, actions for our Planning and Supply Chain (P&SC) team are aligned with our corporate sustainability priorities. We are committed to embedding sustainability throughout our value chain, Scope 3 upstream decarbonization, enabling circularity and positively impacting the communities in which we.work and live through DEI initiatives and respecting human rights. We seek to develop and strengthen relationships with suppliers who are committed to and.act.in accordance with our Code of Conduct. 2022 was a year spent on building foundations and setting the trajectory for our identified priorities:.Decarbonizing Supply Chain.Human Rights Assurance .Supplier DEIDecarbonizing Supply ChainOur sustainable supply chain approach to climate action is to record, reduce and replace: .Recording credible data for Scope 3 upstream emissions. .Reduction actions are focusing on network optimization, and adoption of energy efficiency projects. .Replacement actions include substitution with lower carbon alternatives for products, energy sources, and.modes of transportation. These three elements of our approach run in parallel and.are evident in our 2022.initiatives.CDP SUPPLY CHAIN2021 2022 Number of suppliers engaged 496 1,240 % of prior yearÕs spend represented by.suppliers engaged 35%  50%  Total number of responding suppliers 215 893 Percentage of total Scope 3 upstream emissions covered by engaged suppliers  42% 58% SLB supplier response rate  43% 72% Average CDP supply chain member response rate (as reported by CDP) 67% 64% We recognize that an efficient and resilient supply chain is essential to the success of our business and a key contributor to the success of our net zero ambitions. 	ÒEvery organization is part of a complex and interconnected, environmental, social, and economic ecosystem. .Now more than ever, it is imperative that we collaborate with our suppliers and partners to balance the need for energy with the needs of the planet.Ó 	Gwenola Boyault, 	VP Planning & Supply Chain	CEO Olivier Le Peuch gives the closing speech at SLB Supplier Innovation Summit Responsible supply chain continuedCDP Supply Chain Program2022 was our second year as a CDP Supply Chain program member. The program allows us to benchmark the maturity of our suppliers in their sustainability journey, giving insight into how we can leverage our supply chain to achieve our Scope 3 targets. Worldwide, SLBÕs program has the third largest number of suppliers requested to disclose in the CDP Supply Chain program, and our target was to maintain a 70% minimum response.rate. In addition to benchmarking supplier maturity levels through CDP, we have adopted CDP methodology to co-develop an internal framework to map supplier maturity levels and assess these according to supplier achievements and milestones, as shown in the chart at the left. The majority of responding suppliers were at Beginner or Beginner Plus levels in 2022; as a result we are working with our suppliers to help them advance to the next level of maturity through training and webinars covering topics such as climate change reporting, action strategy, and the risks and opportunities associated with climate.change. We support our suppliers and build their capacity by engaging them on climate action during our periodic business reviews, and by providing additional trainings and webinars covering topics such as emissions calculation and reporting, and science-based targets.Supplier Innovation Program (SIP)In 2022, we held our inaugural SIP Summit in Houston, Texas, bringing together more than 40 of SLBÕs key suppliers to discuss joint projects and innovative solutions to drive improved performance for customers while creating mutual value for SLB and our.suppliers.Out of nearly 170 proposals coming out of the SIP, 23% addressed our decarbonization efforts and presented actionable solutions related to circularity, decarbonizing logistics, and low-carbon products substitution. Learn.more here.FRAMEWORK TO MAP SLB SUPPLIER MATURITY LEVELSDisclose to CDP publicly Set an SBT1.5 and/or Net Zero targetCalculate and report emissionsSet a renewable energy targetVerify emissions data through a third partyReport activities to reduce emissionsSuppliers disclose information via CDPReport Life-cycle Analysis data to SLBAllocate emissions to SLBSet up climate governance on company boardsSet an emissions reduction targetCollect upstream emissions data and engage with suppliersIntermediateAdvanced plusBeginners plusBeginnersAdvancedResponsible supply chain continuedHuman Rights in Supply Chain As an organization, we believe we have a leading role to play in implementing sustainable practices for our company and those within our sphere of influence. To.that.end, we have chosen to lead the conversation with.our suppliers and partners on human rights.Human Rights AssuranceIn 2022, we created our supply chain Human Rights Due Diligence Guideline and deployed it in various geographies. The guideline was developed to assist our procurement community help our suppliers conduct self.assessments of their organizational management systems to comply with our Working Conditions Requirements. To facilitate the identification and selection of suppliers with potential risks and conduct due diligence, we have developed toolkits including a dashboard, auditing questionnaires, scoring methodologies and training materials for suppliers and our internal procurement community. The results of the assessments help us understand the gaps in suppliersÕ management systems and guide the creation of remedial.actions.In Brazil, our procurement team collaborated with local suppliers to identify potential gaps and develop remedial work plans. This enabled the closure of more than 84% of.the identified gaps.Since the launch of this program, more than 150 suppliers completed our introductory training on labor.rights, and over 350 self-assessments were performed by suppliers.In 2023, we aim to extend this program to other geographies, further refining our remedial work with suppliers and embedding human rights as a criteria in our.source-to-contract procurement process, and to continue educating our procurement community and suppliers on.this topic.Supplier DEIRecognizing supplier profiles and capabilities may vary based on geographical locations, our supplier diversity strategy is localized but benchmarked against global supplier diversity practices. In 2022, we collaborated with a third party to develop a data- and insight-driven understanding into what supplier diversity looks like for SLB around the globe and benchmark best-in-class supplier diversity programs. Findings of the study will also be used to understand how best to expand our efforts, beyond the three countries where we have currently implemented supplier.diversity.programs. As part of our under-represented supplier procurement strategies in the US, we focused on data transparency using a supplier diversity performance dashboard to provide an overview of all spend with under-represented suppliers and produce customer reports, with all data validated by Supplier IO. We also look to increase engagement with potential suppliers, including sponsoring the Houston Minority Supplier Development Council EXPO event. As a result of our efforts, in 2022, we increased spend with historically under-represented suppliers by 37% year.on.year, representing almost 10% of our total spend in the United States. SLB is a member of the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business (CCAB) and, in 2022, we completed the second of three phases towards achieving bronze level in their Progressive Aboriginal Relations (PAR) certification program. As part of our Indigenous procurement strategy, our main focus in 2022 was identifying potential Indigenous-owned suppliers for future contract opportunities and inclusion to our overall supplier base. As a result of these efforts, we onboarded two critical Indigenous-owned suppliers, a freight forwarder, and a field equipment and services provider, which increased our Indigenous spend by 76% year on year. SLBÕs work in Australia with verified Indigenous business is underpinned by our new INNOVATE Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) 2022-24, which provides a structured approach to strengthening relationships between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and non.Indigenous peoples, for the benefit of all Australians.In 2022, we drafted our Indigenous Procurement Policy describing SLBÕs commitment to actively work to increase annual addressable local spend with Indigenous.businesses.Developing and implementing indigenous procurement strategies, we provided cultural awareness training to more than 1,300 employees in Australia, introduced favorable payment terms for targeted suppliers, collaborated with state resource councils to engage with indigenous suppliers and increased spend by 300%.year.on.year.In 2022, we partnered with a third party to conduct a benchmarking study for 30 countries where we operate. The primary and secondary data research helped us understand the diversity and equity gaps in these countries, the definition of DEI in local context, global best practices and SLB market prioritization. We will use this as a basis to deploy the program in additional geographies in 2023.Capacity Building We believe that learning and development is fundamental to accelerating a more sustainable future. In 2022, we accelerated our training program for supply chain employees with a dual approach, seeking to enhance the competencies focused on systems thinking, sustainable supply chain and circular economy of our teams as well as build capacity within our extended supply chain.ecosystem. In 2022, over 200 leaders from supply chain were trained. Going forward, our ambition is for 70% of our supply chain leaders to complete circular economy and sustainability introductory training modules by the end of.2023.	IN FOCUSDecarbonization 
through Network 
Optimization This is an example of how network optimization creates business value and emissions reduction opportunity. The project involved identification of a new supplier in a location closer to the point of delivery to reduce the burden of distribution and optimize cost. Changing how we purchase (Local/Regional/Global) and distribute products resulted in 20,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions abatement, helped build supply chain resiliency through supplier diversification, and.mitigated inflation.2022 HSE PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVESHealth, Safety, 
	and EnvironmentHSE Indicator Measurement Objective1 Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate (TRIF) per million work hours (internal)2 We annually set company-wide and geographic-specific TRIF objectives as.percentage improvement compared with prior yearÕs performance Maintain TRIF at 2021 levelACHIEVED Automotive Accident Rate per million miles (AARm) (internal)2 (employees and applicable contractors)3 We annually set company-wide and geographic-specific AARm objectives as percentage improvement compared with prior yearÕs performance 22% reduction in Automotive IncidentsACHIEVED Overall Training Coefficient (employees and applicable contractors) We annually set company-wide and geographic-specific objectives for.compliance with required HSE training programs Compliance level 
exceeding 95% overallACHIEVED Risk Identification Report Rate (RIR) (employees and applicable contractors) We annually set company-wide and geographic-specific objectives to.increase our risk identification reporting rate More than 55 RIRs per.personACHIEVED Internal compliance audits In 2022, we set company-wide and geographic-specific objectives to.have.a 95% compliance rate to 8 HSE key risk standards audits 99% compliance for.internal.auditsACHIEVED In 2022, we recorded our lowest number of injuries. But we still have work to do; our goal 
in 2023 is fatality-free operations worldwide. In 2022, we recorded more than 5.4 million HSE training hours, averaging over 44 HSEÊtraining hours per person through over 13,000 different HSE certifications or courses.Find out more here. Our HSE Management System defines the principles by which we conduct our operations worldwide, and our management team applies rigorous policies and standards throughout the company. Nothing is more important to us than ensuring that our employees, contractors, and customers get home safely to their families at the end of each day. We need our people to understand the importance of HSE and be aware of the potential risks. We run ongoing internal engagement campaigns throughout the year. Our.communication campaigns target multiple populations including contractors, using tailored channels. We also collaborate with the SLB Spouses Association and with communities via our HSE for Youth.program.1	Reflects only company-wide objectives and achievement levels. Geographic- and business line-specific objectives and achievement levels are not reflected.2	Internal TRIF and AARm metrics reflect all SLB-involved incidents or accidents, as applicable, including incidents that are not required to be recorded by IOGP or OSHA (such as incidents occurring during off-duty hours). As a result, these internal performance metrics do not match our industry-recognized TRIF and AARm figures in the performance data table. 3	ÒApplicable contractorsÓ refers to those contractors whose performance was included in our global HSE business system as of December 31, 2022. These contractors are to.some degree under SLBÕs operational control, and so are included in our safety metrics in accordance with IOGP best practices relating to contractor management (Mode 1 and Mode 2 contractors, as defined in IOGP Report 423).SAFETY
45%Improvement1.5FACILITATED HSE CLASSES (EXCLUDING ONLINE TRAINING)1.07# Students # Classes NEST (New Employee Safety Training)  16,223 1,381 Facilitator Level 2  354 78 HSE Level 2  1,905 242 HSE Level 3  451 53 HSE-Event Investigation Level 2  70 22 HSE-Auditing Level 2  201 46 First Aid Level 2  4,190 352 # Students # Classes CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation)  1,419 264 Driving Training  14,089 1,386 Overhead Crane Operator  6,306 1,028 Onshore Mobile Crane Supervisor Level 2  1,170 252 Forklift Operations Level 2  3,433 313 Banksman Slingers  5,338 341 1.00.750.710.590.5FY22FY20FY19FY210TRIF (Total Recordable Injury Frequency) per 1 million work-hours, as per International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP)Health, Safety, and Environment continuedKey 2022 
Safety AwardsOperations Integrity and Safety Our operations integrity teams spearhead our commitment to providing safe, reliable and efficient operations to our customers. We ensure operational integrity and drive performance so that we can consistently deliver superior services and products. Product safety and services are key to our success and supports SLBÕs sustainability commitment to protect our people, our communities, and the environment, and.to deliver high-quality technology, performance and.services to our customers.Mental Health and Wellbeing We are industry leaders because of our exceptional and talented people, so we need our employees and their families to feel healthy and supported in and out of.the.workplace.In 2022, we launched the Live Well Program as part of our comprehensive health strategy to deliver holistic health and wellbeing initiatives. The key components are focused on preventive care incorporating mental health and emotional wellbeing. On average, over 99,000 people completed six modules of mental health training in 2022.The Live Well vision is for SLB to have the healthiest and.happiest employees in our industry.Our Unlock Your Power program provides employees with tools and strategies to develop self-awareness and resilience to stress. This evidence-based training combines neuroscience, attention training, and emotional intelligence, together with practical tools that can be applied immediately at home or work. Development of emotional intelligence competencies aligns with SLB values. In 2022, ten additional trainers were certified.Ranked by Network of Employers for Traffic Safety as one of 
the three companies with the lowest number of automotive collisions per million milesRecognized by Colombia 
Safety Council for High Performance in HSEGREEN 
CHEMISTRYSUSTAINABLE 
MANUFACTURINGRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGSTEWARDSHIP 
IN A PRODUCTÕS 
LIFECYCLEEND OF LIFE 
CIRCULARITYHAZARD 
COMMUNICATIONPRODUCT 
SAFETYChemical Management and Product Stewardship SLB has a chemical management process in place to manage the risks associated with chemicals used in our activities, products, and services, to protect SLB employees, customers, contractors, suppliers, and property, as well as the environment. Learn more here.Awarded the Silver Award at the Shell Malaysia SafetyÊAwardsTechnology Development and Delivery Center in Celle, Germany awarded the Shell ÒGoal zero HeroÓ award Data Privacy 
	and Cyber SecurityIntegrated, enterprise aligned and compliant with standard frameworksINTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENTAuditComplianceIRM CYBER 
SECURITY RISK 
MANAGEMENTSecurity operationsSupplier managementBusiness continuity planningIncident managementOur success as a global technology company depends on.our ability to provide effective data security protection in.connection with.our digital technologies and services. With our trusted third-party advisors, as part of our continuous cyber policy review and update, we have rewritten 26 cyber security program standards to align with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework.We rely on information technology networks and systems for internal purposes, including secure data storage, processing and transmission, as well as in our interactions with our business associates, such as customers and suppliers. We also develop software and other digital products and services that store, retrieve, manipulate, and manage our customersÕ information and data, external data, personal data, and our own data. For additional information view our Privacy Statement and Data Privacy and Cyber Security. Cyber partners are key in our cyber strategy, so we partner with leading cyber security companies and organizations, leveraging best-in-class technology and expertise. We rely on them to keep the products and services we consume and utilize, as part of our digital offerings or company cyber protection, at the highest capability level and continuously updated as cyber threats evolve. We have members of our cyber team sitting on numerous cyber vendor advisory boards and involved in multiple design partnerships as consulting advisors. We utilize multiple cyber intelligence partners and participate in cyber intelligence sharing memberships including the Oil and Natural Gas Information Sharing and Analysis Center (ONG-ISAC), where we have participated at its board level since its inception in 2014. We utilize a third-party cyber risk program to assess and monitor our key suppliers as well as qualify new suppliers to ensure a minimum cyber status is.reached. We have a mature Cyber Risk Management program to document and manage identified cyber risks, which we do within our Integrated risk management system. This gives us visibility across both our corporate IT environment and our customer-facing products and allows us to focus and mitigate risks that have the highest exposure for the company. The program is aligned to and provides cyber risks roll-up for our company-wide enterprise risk management program.TrainingAll employees receive cybersecurity training based on their exposure and function. This starts with all employees and applicable contractors (who have a corporate IT.Identity) receiving annual general cyber awareness training and certification. Everyone also participates in a global phishing awareness program with quarterly exercises, as well as frequent ad hoc exercises for the lowest performing phishing awareness populations. In.addition, we are focused on ensuring our cyber team is well trained so they can respond to the latest cyber threats and attack techniques. We.regularly conduct both internal and external cyber training, including to obtain certifications from external organizations such as GIAC, ISACA, Information System Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2 and International Council of E-Commerce Consultants (EC-Council). This is further supplemented by vendor-specific training and certifications, also attendance and presentations at.technical and vendor conferences.Top 10% In the Top 10% in external ratings for Cyber Security 
performance within the Energy Industry Ð increasing 
our ratings by over 28% since 2015SLB Cyber Security Integrated Risk Management PlatformSLB CYBER PERFORMANCEMetric Target Completion Rate Training Ð Annual Cyber Security Certification >95% 97% Training Ð Data Privacy &.Protection >90% 94% Training Ð Software Compliance >90% 90% Drill-IT Ð Cyber Security Incident Response Drills >150 349