WORKING TOWARD THE WORLD’S MOST SUSTAINABLE SOLAR At SunPower, we aim to build solar products that are as sustainable as the clean energy they produce. We accomplish this through our “beneficial by design” approach to product development where resources are conserved and kept in use as long as possible, and our Light on LandTM approach to solar farm development where we strive to preserve or restore native habitats. Celebrating Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM Silver designation SunPower is the world’s first and only solar panel company to earn the prestigious Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM Silver designation for our direct current E-Series and X-Series panels. Our panels adhere to strict standards in material health, material reuse, renewable energy use, water stewardship and social fairness. Publishing our first Declare label In 2016, SunPower published its first Declare label for E- and X-Series DC panels. The Declare label, administered by the International Living Future Institute, is similar to a nutrition label, but voluntary. It provides details such as where the product is assembled, life expectancy and end-of-life options. We are committed to transparency and are proud to share our products’ contents and manufacturing processes with our customers. Delivering the highest efficiency available, short energy payback time and long life span Energy payback time (EPBT) is the time a panel needs to produce the equivalent amount of energy used during the product’s entire lifecycle (from sourcing raw materials to end of life). SunPower’s energy payback time for panels is approximately 1.2 years and continues to decrease with our ongoing manufacturing and environmental efficiency improvements. For SunPower® Oasis® ground-mounted solar power plants, the energy payback time is even lower—just nine months.6 Since the useful life of our panels is expected to be more than 40 years,4 our panels produce net clean energy for 97% of their lifespan. Plus, SunPower panels pair a lower degradation rate with the highest efficiency ratings on the market,2 producing up to 60% more energy in the same space over 25 years.3 That means homes and organizations can produce more power with fewer SunPower panels, which also reduces the environmental footprint. 6. Francke, L, et al. (2015). GHG Emission and Energy Payback Time of AC Electricity Generated by SunPower® Oasis® Photovoltaic Power Plant. 42nd IEEE PVSC. Reducing or eliminating environmentally sensitive materials At SunPower, we are committed to ensuring that our products and components are as responsibly made as possible. We analyze every chemical used, down to 100 parts per million and SunPower panels undergo third-party toxicity testing for hazardous materials. Our E-Series and X-Series DC solar panels are free from harmful substances such as lead or cadmium and do not require hazardous waste handling procedures during the recycling process. In addition, SunPower’s Supply Chain Sustainability Program works with our suppliers to help them meet our environmental, health, safety, labor, ethics and chemical content requirements. Optimizing land use with innovative products and development practices SunPower’s Light on LandTM program is our signature land-use program for solar power plants. Its practices help us build on previously disturbed lands, restore native habitats, minimize disruptions and act as good neighbors to the surrounding communities. SunPower’s high-efficiency Oasis solar power plants also maximize land utilization, generating 34% more energy per acre than a plant using conventional solar technology7. We build Oasis tracker rows wide enough to accommodate a tractor, with the aim of using power plant sites for both energy and agriculture. SunPower is also partnering with the University of California, Davis, a global leader in agricultural studies, to study co-location of agriculture with Oasis technology and to evaluate possible crop varieties and yield. 7. Layout optimization completed in SunPower Oasis GEOTM System. SunPower Oasis power plant with SunPower P-Series modules modeled at 0.5% annual degradation against 315W polysilicon-based generic module with 0.7% annual degradation in a generic, linked single axis tracker at 50 degree tilt. POWERING SUSTAINABILITY Achievements using the Light on LandTM approach Building solar power plants with the environment in mind. Amherstburg Solar Park Seeded site with native grasses and wildflowers to help support local wildlife. Yolo County Became the first California county to go grid-positive; land is used both for energy production and animal grazing. California Valley Solar Ranch Re-contoured an abandoned mine and restored overgrazed land back to natural landscape; created robust habitat for endangered species. Nellis Air Force Base Constructed two solar plants at Nellis AFB on former landfills, maximizing the value of potentially contaminated sites. San Luis Valley Solar Project  Maiden, Conover and  PV Salvador Solar Project  Bavaria Solarpark  Used minimal water for  Claremont Solar Farms  Built in one of the driest places on  Deployed projects on rolling hills  construction and operation in a  All use sheep grazing to  Earth, so it uses a robotic cleaning  and grazing land without any  highly water-constrained area.  maintain vegetation.  system to minimize water use.  grading because of ability to adjust  height of trackers to accommodate  uneven terrain.  Hongyuan Sichuan Restored native plants and grasslands, which are actively used for grazing. Uterne II Solar Plant Will allow approximately three times more power to be delivered from the same land area as Uterne I, minimizing land use. Prieska Solar Power Plant Significantly reduced dust generation by removing only rocks and vegetation high enough to interfere with trackers; relocated protected plant species and wildlife. Montalto di Castro Used local labor, minimized visual impact with landscape screening, and preserved Etruscan archaeological remains. © 2016 SunPower Corporation. All Rights Reserved. SUNPOWER, the SUNPOWER Logo, and LIGHT ON LAND are trademarks or registered trademarks of SunPower Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. Using robots to reduce water use Solar equipment, especially on solar farms, needs to be cleaned regularly to remove dust and optimize energy production. SunPower’s cleaning robots can handle this chore more efficiently, using 75% less water than manual cleaning.8 They also work at night to avoid disrupting energy production. Ranked #1 on Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition 2015 Scorecard SunPower ranked above all other solar PV manufacturers on Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition’s (SVTC) 2015 Solar Scorecard. SVTC aims to ensure the solar PV industry is safe for the environment, workers and communities. Its annual scorecard scores manufacturers across 10 dimensions including recyclability, energy use, water use and toxicity. Secured the industry’s top rating from the CDP SunPower was the only solar company to receive an A- rating from the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) for its 2016 environmental impacts, the highest rating in the industry. CDP is a globally used standard for emissions and energy reporting, and by proactively reporting to the CDP we aim to demonstrate our commitment to tackling climate-related risks and opportunities. 8. Based on experience with robotic cleaning at actual SunPower sites, compared to data tracked by subcontracted manual cleaners utilized at a SunPower project. 