SocialOur work at SunPower is centered on the idea that clean, 
safe and affordable energy should be accessible to all Americans. This belief is expressed through our company values, as well as through dedicated initiatives that seek to address long-standing inequities in our industry. SunPower 
is committed to supporting a workforce and customer base that reflects our nation’s strength in diversity.SocialDiversity, Equity and InclusionSunPower recognizes the importance of a diverse and inclusive work environment, and we have taken purposeful steps to create a strong culture of diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I). We are committed to the principles of the CEO Pledge, which reinforces our focus on developing programs that prioritize diversity.321Together We 
Are PowerfulWe derive power from inclusion by valuing each person and their unique capabilities and contributions. We must create an environment in which our employees feel safe, welcome, respected and part of a larger mission. A culture of inclusion leads to increased innovation, healthier working relationships, improved decision-making, more fulfilled employees, better customer service and a company that succeeds by doing the right thing.Our Differences 
Make Us StrongerWe celebrate our differences in race, ethnicity, gender, age, sexual orientation, faith, veteran status, ability and other facets of identification. The ways in which we identify ourselves extend beyond these foundations to include diversity of thought and perspective, unique life experiences and different approaches to problem-solving. Our commitment to diversity is reflected in the way we treat each other and our communities.We Lead 
with IntentionSunPower values diversity of all kinds, and our people work to foster inclusion. We expect our leaders to lead by example, promote awareness of DE&I and hold each other accountable in a continuous process of improvement. We will never stop listening, learning and improving.Social—Diversity, Equity and Inclusion29Diversity Within SunPower1Pursuing the goals and values of DE&I 
requires persistent focus and a long-term 
vision and we continue to take meaningful, actionable steps to attract diverse talent and empower an equitable workforce. For more 
details go to us.sunpower.com/diversity.Race & EthnicityAgeWhiteUnder 30 years30 to 50 yearsHispanic or Latino1%5%9%7%Over 50 yearsNot identified8%41%Asian52%12%Black or African American50%Two or more races15%Native American, 
Alaskan, Hawaiian or 
Other Pacific IslanderGenderDirector 
and AboveBoard 
of DirectorsTotal 
WorkforceExecutive 
Leadership25%27%32%33%73%68%67%75%FemaleMale1 All data is as of 01/02/2022. The Race & Ethnicity data represents U.S. employees only and excludes diversity classification of the Philippines workforce.Social—Diversity, Equity and Inclusion30Supplier DiversityOur ability to effect change extends beyond our employee base 
to include our vendors and partners. We have committed to creating an evaluation process to track minority-owned vendors and partners, and we have adopted a policy of proactively including minority-owned businesses in our requests for proposals.We intentionally reach out to small businesses and minority-, women- and veteran-owned enterprises to support communities and local economic development. In the U.S., we conduct extensive outreach to identify diverse businesses interested in working with SunPower. We also work with industry trade associations, independent business development councils and national diverse supplier databases to develop a more diverse network of suppliers.25x25 InitiativeOur 25x25 Initiative is a collection of new DE&I commitments designed to ensure the benefits of distributed solar and storage serve American families, jobseekers and businesses that have been historically disadvantaged. These new commitments align with those made by the Biden administration, as well as the historic Justice40 Initiative, which commits 40 percent of the benefits of federal climate and clean energy investments to disadvantaged communities.At SunPower, we are committed to creating a strong culture of diversity, equity and inclusion. This is true for our employees, but also extends beyond our workforce to the communities we serve and our vendors and partners.Maribelle BosticSenior Director,
Diversity, Equity & InclusionSocial—Diversity, Equity and Inclusion31Hiring and Recruiting PartnershipsEstablishing partnerships with external organizations and experts enables SunPower to learn from others and to more effectively and efficiently reach the company’s DE&I goals.Solar Ready Vets FellowshipSunPower is an active partner of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Solar Ready Vets program. We partner with The Solar Foundation, Hiring Our Heroes and the Solar Energy Industries Association to facilitate our 12-week Corporate Fellowship program.Women of Renewable Industries 
and Sustainable Energy (WRISE)We partner with the WRISE national non-profit organization to promote career opportunities within SunPower. WRISE’s national network allows the company to recruit women at all levels with renewable energy  industry experience.University RecruitingSunPower is committed to hiring talent from HBCUs through our university recruiting program. We partner with organizations including the Society of Women Engineers and the National Society of Black Engineers to identify underrepresented talent graduating from U.S. universities.Internship ProgramThrough our Summer Internship program, we provide meaningful solar experiences to students from a select group of U.S. universities, including HBCUs. Students learn about the solar industry and careers with SunPower by completing meaningful projects that contribute to our business objectives.Society of Women Engineers (SWE) SunPower partners with the Society of Women Engineers to invest in the advancement and professional growth of women engineers and technologists through access to SWE’s member community and advance learning centers for professional development webinars. SunPower 
also participates in SWE’s annual career fair. Solar Tech WomenSunPower has hosted more than 12 TechWomen Emerging Leaders (ELs) since 2015. TechWomen is an initiative of the US Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs and is managed by the Institute of International Education (IIE). Social—Diversity, Equity and Inclusion32Employee-led Resource GroupsWe commit to providing resources and support for employee-led employee resource groups within SunPower. The Green Team was established in 2010 with a mission of promoting initiatives that improve operational efficiency and increase cost savings while reducing the company’s impact on the environment. Among the Green Team focus areas are promoting bicycle commuting among employees and developing educational experiences that inspire employees to adopt regenerative and fulfilling low carbon practices outside the workplace.TIDE was founded in 2014 with a membership of more than 100 employees who lead efforts to make SunPower more diverse and equitable, while providing 
a greater sense of belonging for all employees. The team’s vision is to foster a culture of inclusion and empowerment in the workplace where everyone has an equal opportunity to reach their full potential and feel safe in their work environment. TIDE partners with Human Resources, develops educational workshops and hosts celebrations that promote a more connected culture.Employee resource groups are an extension of our inclusive company culture, providing a forum 
for employees to share, collaborate, connect and further develop personal and professional growth.Social—Diversity, Equity and Inclusion3334+ was established in the fourth quarter of 2020 with a mission to create a safe and collaborative space for Black employees of SunPower, to empower allies and to build a stronger, more diverse community within the company. We approach our mission with a holistic vision by recognizing the many unique challenges faced by our Black employees, and by caring for each of these efforts. This vision includes career development, personal development, health and wellness, equity, social justice and community outreach.SunVets was established in the fourth quarter of 2021 with a mission to support currently employed vets, develop a support community within the company, share ideas, identify support resources and create a culture that attracts and retains veterans to SunPower and participates in the increased employment of veterans in the overall solar market.The SunPower Pride LGBTQ+ Employee Resource group’s mission is to bring together and support LGBTQ+ SunPower employees and allies, share ideas, identify support resources and create a safe, inclusive, equitable culture that attracts and retains LGBTQ+ members to SunPower and participates in the increased employment of LGBTQ+ members in the overall solar market.La Luz was established in early 2022 with a mission to foster an environment that helps SunPower’s Hispanic/LatinX community succeed professionally, personally and in the community. La Luz is a group where people support each other through each of these areas via networking, volunteering and social events.Social—Diversity, Equity and Inclusion34Health and SafetyA Safety CultureSunPower is strongly committed to providing and maintaining a safe workplace, and we recognize our responsibility for the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers and stakeholders. We pursue continuous improvement by setting targets and objectives for health and safety, while at the same time conserving natural resources, minimizing waste and striving to provide an environmentally-friendly workplace at all times.Environmental Health 
and SafetyTo facilitate safe work conditions and ongoing improvements to SunPower’s environmental operations, our established framework for Environmental Health and Safety management includes commitments to:• Promote an injury-free workplace and 
prevent occupational illness• Protect the environment by minimizing 
pollution from business operations• Fulfill all compliance obligations arising 
from interested parties• Continually improve and enhance our environmental and safety performance• Solicit the participation of workers and 
their representatives• Minimize the environmental impact 
of SunPower products at every stage 
of their lifecycle• Optimize consumption of energy 
and limit greenhouse gas emissions to 
minimize contributions to climate changeCOVID-19 ProtocolsWith the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, SunPower acted quickly to ensure the health and safety of its employees and contractors. Where possible, the company facilitated remote work by implementing flexible work policies and supporting employees in obtaining the equipment necessary to perform their jobs remotely. Recognizing the importance of communication and education, SunPower established an internal COVID-19 Employee Resource Center webpage and published a Return to Workplace Playbook to ensure the safety of employees, visitors and customers at SunPower facilities. SunPower regularly evaluates and refines its pandemic-related policies to ensure that employees can always work safely.SunPower is strongly committed to providing 
and maintaining a safe workplace, and we recognize our responsibility for the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers and stakeholders.Social—Health and Safety35Employee Safety1,2Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), lost time recordable rate (LTRR) and recordable injury rate (RIR)Total Recordable Incident RateSunPower tracks safety indicators monthly with a target of continuously reducing the total recordable incident rate (TRIR) for all employees and contractors. An increase in recordables from our residential installers resulted in the increase in our 2021 TRIR. To strengthen our programs on prevention and mitigation of safety issues, we conducted a third-party safety program assessment in 2021, and will also complete a safety culture assessment in 2022, to obtain additional input on enhancements to our safety culture training for field leadership, managers and the EHS team. Our executive management team will also conduct Executive Safety Walks, working alongside our teams to experience a day in the life at a customer site and demonstrating our commitment to living our value of putting safety first for our employees, partners and customers.2.91.91.41.21.00.80.80.70.4TRIRLTRRRIR2019202020211 Data excludes Blue Raven Solar.2 Number of recorded injuries and lost time injuries per million hours worked - includes all SunPower employees and contractors.Social—Health and Safety36Caring for 
Our WorkforceOur company’s success depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. Talented employees come from all walks of life, and we are dedicated to fostering a diverse, safe and inclusive work environment that allows each person to thrive and maximize their growth and success.Employee Engagement and DevelopmentA key component to meeting our company’s goals and fulfilling our mission is continuous development of our employees. Our commitment to employee development and training is guided by our vision and values, and our processes are designed to facilitate employee understanding of how their actions align with SunPower’s vision on a daily basis. We drive high performance and growth through our long-standing tradition of management by objective, with all work clearly linked back to our core values. Employees receive feedback and coaching from their managers on a quarterly basis at a minimum, ensuring consistent growth and presenting an open channel of communication to outline career aspirations and development plans.Through our learning management system, we offer both mandatory and function-specific training programs. Through our partnership with LinkedIn Learning, we invest in our employees’ continued education and career development. SunPower also supports self-development and educational efforts by providing reimbursement for many of the expenses associated with continuing education courses and certifications for its employees. Employees may pursue a degree, obtain career-related professional certifications or take individual courses at approved and accredited educational institutions under this program, provided the course of study is related to the employee’s current position or a probable future.Measuring employee engagement is a valuable opportunity for everyone to provide open, honest and confidential feedback about what it’s like to work at SunPower. We take consistent and deliberate action to create positive change based on employee input and strive to meet ambitious targets that differentiate us in the marketplace and as an employer of choice. We also create an environment where our people find success and, in turn, exhibit high levels of engagement. Engaged employees are absorbed in and are enthusiastic about their work, find a greater sense of meaning in what they do, see a stronger connection between their strengths and their role and expend discretionary effort in their performance. These positive behaviors make a difference to each individual and to our business as we work hard to build an even greater company and continue to change the way our world is powered. SunPower partners with Glint, a third-party survey provider, to conduct its engagement surveys. Glint is built on a people-centric architecture that captures data throughout the employee experience underpinned by the philosophy that higher quality, more frequent and better-informed conversations about engagement lead to happiness and success for people at work. Uncovering insights from employee feedback is only valuable if we take action. The Glint platform is designed to guide leaders through the process of improving engagement and driving results. Employee Benefits and WellnessSunPower creates a holistic culture of health and wellness by providing employees and their dependents with valuable benefits. Our philosophy centers on empowering employees with the resources necessary to manage their own health and well-being, designing a comprehensive and attractive package. In addition to meeting regulatory requirements in relevant markets in which we operate, we offer wellness benefits that include gym discounts, an employee assistance program (EAP), an adoption assistance program, and commuter benefits, among others. SunPower offers a 401(k) retirement plan that includes employer matching up to a specified percentage. 
We provide 10 paid statutory holidays for all employees plus additional holidays as may be locally provided, paid personal time off for non-exempt employees, and discretionary vacation 
for exempt employees. We also provide three 
paid days for volunteering per year.Pay ParityOur ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees. We are committed to providing equitable compensation to our employees, and we conduct annual pay parity reviews to identify and correct any inequities. SunPower’s comprehensive rewards system ensures that we are compensating and rewarding employees in line with market practices, and our pay-for-performance philosophy aligns employee interests with those of our stockholders by rewarding achievements that meet or exceed corporate goals.Parental Bonding LeaveBecoming a parent or adding to a growing family is a beautiful and life-changing experience. We believe that each parent should have the time and freedom to bond with their new child. SunPower launched its Paid Parental Bonding Leave benefit for its U.S. benefits-eligible regular employees in 2021. The benefit applies to birthing and non-birthing parents, as well as to adoption or foster care. SunPower’s Paid Parental Bonding Leave benefit can be used in combination with state-issued benefits.Human Rights and 
Forced LaborHuman trafficking and forced labor continue to be relevant and pressing challenges in many areas of the world. SunPower prohibits the practice of forced labor, child labor, bonded labor or any exploitative labor practices throughout our workforce, and we demand the same from our suppliers and business partners. SunPower respects the human rights and national laws of the countries in which we operate, including the rights of all employees and contingent workers within our company. We prohibit recruited employees from paying fees during recruitment, deterring the potential for forced labor, and we take proactive measures to protect the rights of our workers by offering human rights training programs, Compliance and Ethics Helpline and published materials on our human rights policies. We offer training to our employees on human rights that help identify, mitigate and report on human trafficking and slavery.Social—Caring for Our Workforce37Social—Caring for Our Workforce38Community EngagementOne Tree Planted 
Employee Service AwardsIn 2021, we revamped our Employee Service Awards to plant trees in lieu of distributing service award plaques. In partnership with One Tree Planted, an organization that plants trees around the world to help support reforestation, trees are planted in recognition of 1-year and each 5-year service milestone achievement. In the first quarter of 2021, about 9,200 trees, representing the equivalent number of service milestones of active employees, were planted in commemoration of the program launch. As of the end of 2021, about 13,500 trees were planted.SunPower FoundationSunPower encourages employees to give their time and money to causes that matter to them, and the SunPower Foundation matches employee donations. Since 2015, employee donations and SunPower matching funds together have provided approximately $1.5M, and about 27,000 volunteer hours, to nonprofit organizations.Motivated by a commitment to environmental justice, we believe that access to a healthy environment is a fundamental human right. The mission of the Foundation is to promote environmental justice through sponsorship of community projects and organizations committed to providing affordable solar and storage systems, access to solar energy and pathways to solar jobs for all.In 2021, the SunPower Foundation donated 37kW of solar through Good Sun, benefiting 9 homes, trained 33 individuals under the CA Youth Energy Services curriculum in partnership with Rising Sun Energy and enabled access to solar energy through Brighten Haiti.Social—Community Engagement39Environmental Justice CommitmentSunPower is committed to creating a future in which solar energy and storage solutions form the building blocks of a resilient and sustainable economy that serves all people. Environmental justice demands attention to the past, present and future. We constantly seek opportunities to work with communities which have been disadvantaged by historic and systemic inequities, leveraging our expertise in renewable energy to improve environmental conditions, and to create equitable opportunities to build careers in the solar energy industry. We seek to improve communities through both our products and our people.Community SolarSunPower’s community solar offering allows customers to obtain the benefits of solar energy without having any panels installed on their roofs, making solar accessible to people who live in apartments, condominiums and other residences that are not conducive to solar installations. These customers can be served as part of a community of solar energy supporters who obtain their power from large solar projects built within their utility district.SunPower’s commercial customer base offers extensive opportunities to create new community solar programs. This market policy supports the company’s long-term growth strategy and provides a significant opportunity to reach new customers by leveraging the existing installed base.Philippines Mangroves Initiative SunPower’s Regional Office Headquarters (ROHQ) in the Philippines, in cooperation with the Barangay Carretunan Municipality of Catagan Batangas, pledged to annually adopt one hectare for mangrove planting. SunPower shoulders all expenses and costs in connection with the planting and maintenance of mangrove trees in the identified area, while maintenance of the mangrove plantation is handled by locals from the community. ROHQ employees have volunteered in planting mangrove seedlings in the Batangas region. As of 2021, SunPower has planted 10,000 seedlings.Social—Caring for Our Workforce40SunPower Horizons® ProgramSunPower’s Horizons® Solar Education Program is one of the industry’s most comprehensive and substantive solar education programs. Our K-12 educational program offers innovative programs for science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) classrooms, while our comprehensive educational programs support students in the classroom, in the field, and provide professional development for educators. SunPower is committed to offering STEM programs to underserved communities.380+Teachers358SunPower Employee Volunteers33,050Students40Existing SunPower Districts ServedSunPower and Project Lead the WaySunPower partners with Project Lead the Way, a non-profit organization that develops education curricula, and provides transformative learning experiences for PreK-12 students and teachers. Since 2013, SunPower has supported 61 schools in California and New Mexico through funding Project Lead the Way grants. These grants deliver comprehensive activity, project- and problem-based curriculum aligned with relevant national standards in the areas of engineering, biomedical and computer science. To date, SunPower has funded $1.18M grants and has committed another $467,500 for future school grants. The company’s flagship field program is the Solar Energy Academy—a five-day intensive summer program for high school students. This 40-hour learning experience includes lectures, problem-solving discussions and hands-on labs.$1,182,500Funded 
Grants64SunPower Supported Schools83Trained Teachers$467,500Committed Future School GrantsSocial—Caring for Our Workforce