Achieving our first triple certification in Mexico SunPower’s Mexicali, Mexico, plant became our first manufacturing facility to be “triple certified” by earning three of the industry’s most stringent and prestigious certifications: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) from the The Mexicali facility: U.S. Green Building Council, Landfill-Free Verification from NSF Sustainability, and • Attained LEED Gold certification the Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM Silver from the U.S. Green Building product standard from the Cradle to Council in August 2016. It is the only Cradle Products Innovation Institute. manufacturing facility in Mexico to be LEED-EBOM Gold-certified (LEED for Existing Buildings: Operations & Maintenance). The facility also earned the fourth-highest LEED score among the 56 LEED-certified manufacturing facilities in Mexico. •  Earned Landfill-Free Verification from NSF Sustainability in August 2015. The facility was the first of any industry in Mexico to be third-party verified as landfill-free.  •  Has been producing Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM Silver direct current E-Series and X-Series solar panels since 2014.  Expanding Cradle to Cradle  Making more facilities landfill-free  manufacturing  At the end of 2015, SunPower facilities  In 2014, SunPower was awarded the  in De Vernejoul and Toulouse, France,  prestigious Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM  joined the Mexicali facility in earning  Silver distinction by the Cradle to Cradle  landfill-free verification from NSF  Products Innovation Institute for panels  Sustainability. This certification means  manufactured in Mexicali, Mexico. By  these three facilities divert more than  the end of 2016, 100% of our direct  99% of their waste, with 1% or less going  current E-Series and X-Series panels—  to landfills.  manufactured in our four facilities in  Mexico, France and the Philippines—  carried this certification. Unlike single- attribute eco-labels, Cradle to Cradle  Certified is a comprehensive product  quality standard that evaluates product  design, manufacturing and sourcing  practices as well as corporate citizenship  and ethics principles.  Increasing our LEED-certified footprint The Mexicali facility was SunPower’s latest site to earn LEED certification. The others include our LEED Gold-certified headquarters in San Jose, Calif., a LEED Platinum-certified administration building and a LEED Gold-certified manufacturing facility in Malaysia, and a LEED Platinum-certified regional operating headquarters in the Philippines. LEED is the international standard of excellence in green building, and assesses design, construction, operation and maintenance. Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM Silver E-Series and X-Series DC panels were recognized as a 2016 Environmental Leader Product of the Year Earned the #1 ranking and highest score ever on the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition’s 2015 Solar Scorecard SunPower received the industry’s top rating in 2016 from the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Recognized as one of Green Builder’s 2015 Eco-Leaders Won the 2015 Guardian Sustainable Business Award for innovation in the Net Positive category, recognizing our operation’s unique focus on environmental and social impacts Won a 2015 Patents for Humanity award from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for our contributions to the Solar Service Station (3S) project