EnvironmentSunPower is the nation’s longest-standing solar company, leading the industry for more than 37 years with innovation and exceptional service. Our work is motivated by a mission to address the environmental challenges facing the United States and the world, and every dollar we spend and employee we hire is dedicated to that mission. We are simultaneously committed to reducing the environmental impact of our operations by refining our processes and introducing new innovations to limit our carbon footprint.EnvironmentEnvironmental ImpactSunPower has enabled the installation of solar projects which have generated 133 TWh since 2005. This is the equivalent of avoiding 94 million metric tons of carbon emissions.1 In 2021, SunPower enabled 14 million metric tons of CO2e of carbon avoidance for our customers. 133 Generated by SunPower installations since 200594 MillionMetric tons of carbon offset since 2005The offset CO2 is equivalent to carbon sequestered by:The offset CO2 is equivalent to negating greenhouse gas emissions from:20 MillionPassenger vehicles driven for one year17 MillionHomes’ electricity use for one year115 MillionAcres of U.S. forests in one year1.6 BillionTree seedlings grown for 10 years104 BillionPounds of coal 
burned11 BillionGallons of gasoline consumed1 CO2 equivalent is based on entering 133 billion kilowatt hours into the EPA Equivalencies Calculator: https://www.epa. gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator Environment—Environmental Impact19Legacy of Sustainability Leadership Over the course of its history, SunPower has built a legacy of sustainability leadership by providing a positive impact on the environment and in our communities. We are committed to building a better planet for the next generation, which is why our solar and storage products are designed to be as sustainable as the energy they produce. SunPower works to maximize the environmental benefit at each step of our products’ lifecycle, including sourcing and end-of-life product takeback and recycling.  Under our leadership and before the spin-off of our manufacturing assets in August 2020, SunPower® Maxeon® DC solar panels were the first to become Cradle to Cradle Certified™1 Bronze for strict environmental standards in product design, assembly, sourcing and ethics principles. SunPower also worked with the Solar Energy Industries Association to create the first industry-wide PV recycling program, helping to keep PV waste out of landfills.  Building on more than three decades of leadership in sustainability, we will continue to develop innovative new solar and storage solutions for homeowners.  Our solar and storage products are designed to 
be as sustainable as the energy 
they produce.1 Cradle to Cradle Certified™ is a certification mark licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute.Environment—Legacy of Sustainability Leadership20Greenhouse Gas (GHG) EmissionsSunPower’s sustainability focus shifted in the later part of 2020 to our downstream business of sales, storage innovation and energy services. In 2021, 
we aligned our Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG inventory to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: 
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, ensuring consistency in the data collection and calculation of GHG emissions. Our scope 1 disclosure include GHG emissions from our fleet vehicles along with the Oregon manufacturing facility steam boiler. Our scope 2 disclosure includes GHG emissions for our offices and warehouses, where primary data were collected and for locations where data was not available, we estimated GHG emissions based on square footage. We limited our scope 3 GHG emissions to business travel, employee shuttle, work from home and U.S. material transportation. Prior year data were updated to include these identified GHG emissions categories. Scope 1 EmissionsSteam boiler 
gas consumption 
for our Oregon manufacturing facility and vehicle fleetScope 2 EmissionsElectricity and gas consumptions from 
our leased offices, Oregon manufacturing facility and warehousesScope 3 EmissionsU.S. material transportation, 
business travel, employee shuttle 
and work from homeGreenhouse Gas (GHG) EmissionsScope 1, 2 and 3 Carbon Footprint
(Metric Tons of CO2e, Thousands)GHG Emissions IntensityScope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions Relative to Megawatt Deployed
(Metric Tons of CO2e / Megawatt Deployed)GHG Emissions IntensityScope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions Relative to Annual Revenue
(Metric Tons of CO2e / Millions Revenue)73.735.130.365.229.525.011.3
Scope 1 & 221.045.910.3
Scope 1 & 218.88.2 
Scope 1 & 219.0
Scope 314.7
Scope 312.8
Scope 3201920202021201920202021201920202021Environment—Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions21We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our operations by refining our processes and introducing new innovations to limit our carbon footprint.Energy ManagementOur scope 2 GHG emissions is comprised mainly 
of electricity and gas consumption in our U.S. and 
Philippines offices, and our U.S. warehouses, excluding
the recently-acquired Blue Raven Solar. Closure of our
Hillsboro, Oregon manufacturing operations in early
2021 and our workforce working remotely resulted
in our overall lower energy use in 2021. Energy UsedElectricity and Gas Consumption from Facilities and Offices
(Gigawatt Hours)Energy IntensityElectricity and Gas Consumption Relative to Megawatt Deployed
(Megawatt Hours / Megawatt Deployed)Energy IntensityElectricity and Gas Consumption Relative to Annual Revenue
(Megawatt Hours / Millions Revenue)31.761.526.056.223.826.919.337.014.6201920202021201920202021201920202021Environment—Energy Management22Electric Fleet 
and Green Logistics SunPower’s commitment to sustainability and reduced carbon emissions includes its logistics, freight network and vehicle fleet. The company supports the requirements of the Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay Shipper program and became a SmartWay Transport Partner in December of 2021. SunPower is actively seeking cost-effective and environmentally efficient freight transportation to reduce our freight carbon footprint and is also introducing green fleet technologies and EPA SmartWay carriers into our network. SunPower’s freight and distribution strategies are managed in collaboration with logistics company Kuehne+Nagel and Dependable Highway Express (DHE), a trucking transportation company. In the fall of 2020, DHE became one of the first fleet operators in North America to deploy Volvo VNR Electric trucks. DHE now uses a fleet of electric Volvo trucks to run warehouse distribution routes for SunPower from its facility in Ontario, California. SunPower plans to use additional Volvo VNR Electric trucks to transport solar products directly to its customers’ homes throughout Southern California. Among the company’s environmental targets is conversion of at least 90% of its U.S. fleet of vehicles to electric or hybrid vehicles by 2030.As a renewable energy company on a mission to change the way our world is powered, we can’t ignore the energy needed to deliver solar and storage to customers’ homes. By electrifying our vehicle fleet and reducing the use of fossil fuels in our supply chain, we are amplifying the benefits of residential solar power.Derek KuzakExecutive Vice President,
OperationsEnvironment—Electric Fleet and Green Logistics23Water Management SunPower’s operations focus on sales, storage innovation and energy services. We procure solar 
panels from leading manufacturers who commit to responsible water use, pursuant to our supplier sustainability guidelines. The water used in our direct operations has dropped significantly from 2019 
due to our focus shifting away from manufacturing panels and a reduction in employees occupying offices due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As employees return to offices in the coming year, we will evaluate 
our water consumption levels and develop applicable water conservation measures.Water IntensityWater Consumption Relative to Annual Revenue
(Gallons / Thousands Revenue) Water ConsumptionWater Footprint from Various Facilities
(Gallons, Millions)8.810.28.49.99.16.9201920202021201920202021Environment—Water Management24Total WasteWaste from Facilities and Offices
(Metric Tons)Waste Management and Product Recycling SunPower has established environmentally responsible disposal of waste as a core objective of our business. Our reported total waste is comprised mainly of non-hazardous waste from our Oregon facility 
and our California and Philippines offices. We maintain a national network of innovative, approved recyclers for our electrical, mechanical and solar panel waste streams. We test, reuse or resell components that have remaining life, and ship unusable inventory to Responsible Recycling (R2:2013)—specialized recyclers with robust downstream partners for 
the circular use of extracted raw materials and precious metal recovery (e.g. glass, aluminum, etc.). We are 
also developing end-of-life partnerships for responsible battery handling, disposal and recycling.Additionally, we have taken steps to minimize the freight mileage for our waste streams by using direct shipments to lower the carbon footprint of reverse logistics.1,207830356201920202021Waste RecycledPercentage of Total Waste Recycled
(%)62.358.854.7201920202021Environment—Waste Management and Product Recycling25SunPower partners with regional PV recyclers across the country to provide customers with better access to module recycling and to lessen our waste streams’ freight mileage. We have recyclers in Oregon, Arizona, Texas and Ohio. Our PV recyclers have the following certifications:• ISO9001: Quality Management Systems• ISO14001:2004: Environmental 
Management Systems• OSHAS 18001: Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems• R2/RIOS Certified Electronics Recycler®• e-Stewards Standard for Responsible Recycling and Reuse of Electronics® 2009• Responsible Recycling 2008By requiring our recyclers to have these certifications, we ensure material is properly processed, sorted, inspected and dismantled into appropriate subsequent waste streams for reuse or scrap. Additionally, SunPower’s master services agreement with primary recyclers include language that ensure secondary material handlers are R2:2013 or e-Stewards Certified.Environment—Waste Management and Product Recycling26Supplier Sustainability
Guidelines To ensure SunPower operations are carried out under the highest legal, financial and sustainability standards, we have adopted Supplier Sustainability Guidelines, based on the Solar Energies Industry Association’s (SEIA) Solar Commitment, which define common practices and expectations for all solar industry participants, including manufacturers, suppliers, subcontractors and customers in the solar value chain. In alignment with SunPower’s company value to Do the Right Thing, SunPower is committed to human rights as defined by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Conventions of the International Labor Organization, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the UN Global Compact. SunPower expects the same standards to be met by our contractors and suppliers. SunPower’s Human Rights Statement sets out our expectations for third parties with whom we do business and guide our employees on their diligence of our vendors and service providers. Doing the right thing means holding our suppliers to the same ethical standards that we hold ourselves. We require our suppliers to acknowledge our Human Rights Statement and their Commitment to the Elimination of Human Trafficking and Slavery from Supply Chains, and retain the right to terminate any suppliers who violate our standards. Conflict Minerals SunPower’s commitment to human rights extends to the sourcing of products, including minerals sourced from high-conflict areas. SunPower fully supports the goals and objectives of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. SunPower does not knowingly support armed conflict in high-risk areas. We adhere to all applicable foreign and U.S. federal laws related to the use of “conflict” minerals, and we have incurred and will continue to incur costs necessary to source conflict-free products. Read our Conflict Minerals Policy. Environment—Supplier Sustainability Guidelines, Conflict Minerals