Innovation SunPower has established a reputation for innovation since its founding more than 38 years ago. Innovation underpins everything we do, from product development to financing to customer service. To achieve our mission of making solar and storage accessible to most Americans, we must pursue relentless growth and innovation across the company and industry. Innovation 47 mySunPower® Mobile App The mySunPower app experience helps homeowners to review and manage their energy generation, consumption and battery storage settings from a mobile device. Designed to integrate seamlessly with SunPower’s existing homeowner platform, the mySunPower app makes it possible to optimize energy use, save money and become less dependent on traditional energy providers in the face of rolling blackouts, natural disasters and the impacts of climate change. Since its launch, the app has over 131,000 active monthly users, who on average log in more than four times per week. Innovation—mySunPower Mobile App 48 SunVault® Battery Storage Options As states across the nation set new records for electricity demand amid the summer’s heat waves, more homeowners face the threat of rolling blackouts and receiving texts from their electric grid to conserve energy. Homeowners can manage their SunVault energy storage with the mySunPower® app to see how much energy is available during peak-demand, reserve for an outage or lower energy costs by using stored energy. Further, all SunVault energy storage systems are backed by a 10-year warranty, regardless of how much the battery is charged and drained over time. SunPower is expanding its portfolio of energy storage products with the launch of a 19.5 kWh and 39 kWh SunVault. With the introduction of 19.5 and a 39 kWh versions, SunVault can be right-sized for almost any home with modularity and scale. These new battery configurations offer increased energy density and maximize space within the battery as compared to previous versions of SunVault, providing the ability to store more energy into a single box. For customers, this means they can purchase more energy storage for less money and fit it in less wall space, with the option to build a larger system as the home’s energy needs evolve. SunPower has also made design upgrades that can make SunVault faster and easier to install. In all, SunVault is now available in four configurations: 13 kWh, 19.5 kWh, 26 kWh, and 39 kWh. Some of these options include multiple inverters. SunVault configurations with multiple inverters and storage capacity of 26 kWh and more have the potential to power the whole home, so customers do not have to choose between comfort and essential loads during an outage1. 1 The storage system’s ability to provide electricity during an outage will vary based on the amount of energy stored in the battery, wattage and duration of use of devices/appliances connected to the system, the battery’s ability to recharge during daylight hours, and other factors. Additional hardware installed by a third party at added cost may be required for powering your HVAC system. Dealer Accelerator Program Investments The SunPower Dealer Accelerator Program is designed to propel solar dealer growth and accelerate proliferation of SunPower’s solar, storage and financing products. Through the program, SunPower invests in regional solar dealers to support their growth, thereby accelerating the uptake of renewable energy across the United States. As part of the program, dealers receive preferred access to SunPower equipment, battery storage and financial products offerings, as well as enhanced lead generation and business strategy support. In 2022, SunPower made minority investments in four companies, Freedom Solar Power, Sea Bright Solar, Renova Energy and EmPower Solar. Texas-based Freedom Solar Power is a leading residential installer providing solar energy to more than 18,000 homeowners across five states. The company generated $255 million in revenue in 2022, with a three-year compound annual growth rate of 76%. Freedom Solar teamed up with SunPower in 2014 and became the first and only SunPower Master Dealer in Texas. The company was named Residential National Dealer of the Year in 2017, Regional Top Producer of the Year in 2018 and National Top Producer of the Year in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Sea Bright Solar provides solar solutions to homeowners in New Jersey, New York and Central California, enabling them to save money on electricity and reduce dependence on fossil fuels. The company was named Residential National Dealer of the Year in 2019 for their success in offering high-quality, complete solar solutions alongside superior customer service to homeowners demonstrating exceptional industry knowledge and leadership. Renova Energy Corporation is America’s first professionally accredited solar company and an award-winning SunPower Elite Dealer in the Southern California and Arizona deserts. Renova Energy holds the titles of National Residential Dealer of the Year, Regional Top Producer, and Top Design awards for both residential and commercial installations. Renova Energy is more than 300 local employees strong and has performed nearly 10,000 solar installations. EmPower Solar has served Long Island and the greater New York area since 2003, helping generate millions for the region in economic activity each year. In 2020, the company added an operations center in Farmingdale, NY to support the rapid expansion of its residential solar division and has doubled its workforce since then. In 2022, EmPower Solar installed 8.8 MW of distributed solar and continued to provide five-star service to its existing 5,000+ clients. Innovation—Dealer Accelerator Program Investments 50 SunPower and General Motors Home Energy System General Motors (GM) named SunPower a preferred residential installation provider for bi-directional chargers for the Chevrolet Silverado EV and its exclusive solar provider. The collaboration brings SunPower’s home energy expertise and installation capabilities with GM’s leadership in EV and battery technology to help provide customers with more resilient, sustainable and cost-effective energy. The home energy system and installation services are slated to be available alongside the retail launch of the 2024 Chevrolet Silverado EV, expected in the fall of 2023. With bi-directional charging capabilities, the Silverado EV is expected to provide enough electricity to provide energy backup to your home’s essentials during a grid outage when paired with a home energy system. Once available, Silverado EV customers will be able to have their home energy system installed at the same time as their Silverado EV charger to enable vehicle-to.home (V2H) power. Customers can also choose to purchase a SunPower® solar system for their home. An EV customer with solar can charge their vehicle with energy generated from their rooftop system, which is cleaner and often less expensive than charging from the grid. Once available customers with a home energy system, compatible EV and properly equipped home are also expected to be able to store solar-generated electricity in their vehicle’s battery and export it directly into their home during the hours when electricity costs the most. This provides an opportunity for them to save even more money on electricity bills depending on home size, energy usage and utility rates. Changing The Way Homes Are Built: SunPower and Microgrid Communities SunPower, KB Home, University of California, Irvine (UCI), Schneider Electric, Southern California Edison (SCE) and the Department of Energy teamed up to create a blueprint for new home communities of the future. Neighborhoods use solar systems paired with battery storage to create a self-supporting microgrid for sustainable, reliable, grid-supporting energy. The KB Home’s newly launched Energy-Smart Connected Communities in Menifee, California, allow more than 200 state-of-the-art, all electric homes to be solar powered, equipped with individual battery storage and connected to a microgrid powered by a large, shared community battery. These power-outage resistant communities are the first of their kind in the state and are designed to offer a blueprint for sustainable and resilient new home development of the future. KB Home, SunPower and UCI joined forces to reimagine what a new home community could look like if built to reduce carbon emissions, cut energy costs, and provide new ways of producing reliable and resilient energy. With a $6.65 million Department of Energy (DOE) grant, microgrid design and engineering support from Schneider Electric, and strong collaboration with SCE to ensure a smooth transition between grid and off-grid electricity, these innovative homes are now available to the public. These communities offer a new vision for how individual homes interact with the electrical grid. Every home, while maintaining its regular service with SCE, can operate during an outage as part of a self-supporting microgrid, drawing energy from its own SunVault® storage system as well as a large community battery. Together, they are designed to support critical loads such as lights, refrigeration and WiFi, as well as additional high-capacity loads like HVAC and domestic hot water. When the sun is shining, individual and community batteries can be continually recharged using excess solar generation until the grid connection returns. Additional energy services offered by SunPower allow residents to enroll in a Virtual Power Plant (VPP) program through which their battery storage, EV chargers and other flexible loads can be automatically dispatched to support the electrical grid. Enrolled homeowners may be eligible for compensation for their participation in the program. UCI will also simulate the connected microgrids, analyze data from the VPP program and collaborate with SCE to determine its effectiveness in supporting grid infrastructure. Bringing Solar to More American Homes: SunPower and IKEA U.S. In 2022, SunPower formed a partnership with IKEA U.S. to make solar energy easier to access. Through the collaboration, SunPower and IKEA are able to provide members of the IKEA Family customer loyalty program the ability to purchase home solar solutions in select California locations. The Home Solar with IKEA collaboration will enable IKEA Family members to generate and store their own renewable energy and live more sustainably. Home Solar with IKEA combines the strengths of IKEA retail and knowledge of life at home with the expertise of SunPower, a trusted brand with more than 38 years in the solar industry. 