Social We’re committed to working towards a common goal of making clean, safe and affordable energy accessible to as many Americans as possible. Our dedicated efforts to achieve this goal ladder up to our company values and are expressed through initiatives that aim to confront and address long-standing inequities in the solar industry. Additionally, SunPower strives to support both its workforce and customer base that reflect the diverse nation in which we both live and work. Social 26 People and Community Goals and Progress SunPower remains committed to creating a strong culture of diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I). In 2021, we launched our SunPower 25x25 Program, a set of comprehensive DE&I commitments designed to ensure the benefits of home solar and storage serve American families, job seekers and businesses that have been historically underserved. In addition, we’ve established partnerships with external organizations and experts to enable SunPower to learn from others and to more effectively reach the company’s DE&I goals. Topic Goals Baseline1 Status Target Year Notes Community People NF 26% 29% 35% Separate targets have been established for the 4 Increase representation of women U.S. leaders 2025 non-field (NF) and field (F) workforce given theF 0% 0% 10% Leadership diversity2,3 inherent solar industry demographic of field NF5% 5% 15% Increase representation of Black and Hispanic/Latinx workforce, as well as in consideration of the sale of 5 2025 U.S. leaders F 0% 0% 10% the CIS business and the acquisition of Blue Raven Solar. SunPower’s DE&I and Talent Acquisition NF 34% 36% 40% teams have collaborated on launching recruiting 6 Increase representation of women U.S. employees 2025 F 4% 5% 10% programs aimed to offer hiring managers a diverse 25x25: Increasing candidate pool. We are also actively forming new workforce diversity3 NF 8% 16% 25% Increase representation of Black and Hispanic/Latinx 2025 partnerships for technical training and candidate 7 U.S. employees F 13% 43% 25% sourcing from underrepresented groups. Achieve the target ratio of new U.S. residential 25x25: Expanding customers (single and multi-family), added within The baseline values were updated for both goals. 8 16% 17% 25% 2025 access for customers 2025, that are made up of people who live in The status reflects progress made through new historically disadvantaged communities partnerships including the Latin Business Association, Achieve the target ratio of new dealers and National Association of Minority Contractors and 25x25: Ensuring 9 subcontractors, added within 2025, that are owned by 15% 12% 25% 2025 Women in Cleantech & Sustainability. industry equity women and people of color Community Approximately 3,200 volunteer hours were 10 Contribute employee volunteer hours 25k 30k 40k 2030 engagement contributed by our employees in 2022. 1 Baseline is 2020. 2 Leaders are defined as those at director level and above. 3 Goals 4-7 have been updated to separately establish targets for non-field (NF) and field (F) positions. Field positions are those Social—People and Community Goals and Progress 27directly involved in system installations; all other positions are considered non-field. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion SunPower recognizes the importance of a diverse and inclusive work environment, and we have taken purposeful steps to create an even stronger culture of diversity, equity and inclusion. We are also committed to the principles of the CEO Action Pledge, which reinforces the development of programs that prioritize diversity. 1 Our Differences Make Us Stronger We celebrate our differences. The way we identify ourselves also extends beyond these foundations to diversity of thought and perspective, a range of approaches to problem-solving and different life experiences. The value we place on diversity is reflected in the way we treat each other and our communities. 2 Together We Are Powerful We expect that all our employees are respected and welcomed, and that they feel they are part of something bigger. A culture of inclusion leads to more innovation, healthier working relationships, better decision-making, more fulfilled employees, a better ability to serve our customers and, ultimately, a company that does well by doing good. 3 We Lead with Intention Our leaders are expected to lead by example. This starts with building awareness on the part of every SunPower employee and holding ourselves accountable. We are committed to listening, learning and improving. Social—Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 28 Age Under 30 years Race & Ethnicity White Commitment to 30 to 50 years Hispanic or Latino Increasing Diversity1 Over 50 years Not identified Pursuing the goals and values of DE&I requires persistent focus and a long-term vision. We Asian continue to take meaningful, actionable steps to Black or African American attract diverse talent and empower an equitable Two or more races workforce. For more details go to us.sunpower. com/diversity. Native American, Alaskan, Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander Gender Board Executive Director Total of Directors2 Leadership and Above Workforce Female Male 1 All data as of 01/03/2023. The Race and Ethnicity data represents U.S. employees only and excludes diversity classification of the Philippines workforce. 2 Board of Directors data as of 04/01/2023. Social—Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 29 Supporting Communities: SunPower 25X25 In September 2021, the company launched SunPower 25X25, a comprehensive set of goals designed to make investments in diversity, equity and inclusion within our company, across the industry and in disadvantaged communities. Our Commitment SunPower is commited to achieving the following by the close of 2025 Increase Workforce Diversity 25% 25% of our workforce is represented by Black and Hispanic/Latinx people; 40% of our workforce1 is represented by women. Expanding Access for Customers 25% 25% of our new U.S. residential customers are made up of people who live in disadvantaged communities. Ensuring Industry Equity 25% 25% of new dealers and subcontractors we work with are businesses owned by women or people of color. SunPower has identified four areas of opportunity to support the success of the long-term goals outlined in the SunPower 25X25 commitments: Increasing Workforce Diversity SunPower will achieve workforce diversity goals through the deployment of a full-scale workforce development program. In 2022, emphasis was placed on supporting the company’s growing residential installation teams across the country. Expanding Access for Customers SunPower is committed to the development of products and services that make solar accessible to low-income and moderate-income customers. This includes partnering with community-based organizations and non-profit organizations that assist those most likely to be impacted by energy burden and providing customers with access to information regarding additional incentives to reduce energy costs. Ensuring Industry Equity A commitment to economic equity is the cornerstone of SunPower 25X25. To that end, SunPower has prioritized the establishment of new alliances with women-owned and minority-owned business organizations to ensure that SunPower has direct feedback from business owners and entrepreneurs as programs are designed to accelerate the success of ethnically-, racially- and gender-diverse business partners. Our partner organizations include Black Owners of Solar Services (B.O.S.S.), Latin Business Association and the National Association of Women Business Owners. Ensuring Supplier Equity Supplier diversity allows SunPower to effect change that extends all the way to our vendors and partners. In 2022 SunPower improved processes that track minority-owned vendors and partners. Moreover, SunPower has adopted a policy of proactively including minority-owned businesses in our proposals. As part of the commitment to achieve the goals established as part of SunPower 25X25, we developed a work plan that will expand supplier diversity beyond direct and indirect suppliers to incorporate establishing goals for our level two suppliers. We intentionally engage small businesses and minority-, women- and veteran-owned enterprises to support communities and local economic development. In the U.S., we conduct extensive outreach to identify diverse businesses interested in working with SunPower. We also work with industry trade associations, independent business development councils and national diverse supplier databases to develop a more diverse network of suppliers. We want to encourage SunPower vendors and business partners to follow our lead. For additional details visit, us.sunpower.com/ sunpower-25x25 Social—Supporting Communities: SunPower 25X25 31 Hiring and Recruiting Partnerships Establishing partnerships with external organizations and experts enables SunPower to advance our DE&I goals. Solar Ready Vets Fellowship SunPower is an active partner of the U.S. Department of Energy’s Solar Ready Vets program. We partner with The Solar Foundation, Hiring Our Heroes and the Solar Energy Industries Association to facilitate our 12.week Corporate Fellowship program. Society of Women Engineers (SWE) SunPower partners with the Society of Women Engineers to invest in the advancement and professional growth of women engineers and technologists through access to SWE’s member community and advance learning centers for professional development webinars. SunPower also participates in SWE’s annual career fair. Internship Program Through our summer internship program, we provide meaningful solar experiences to students from a select group of U.S. universities, including Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). Students learn about the solar industry and careers with SunPower by completing meaningful projects that contribute to our business objectives and grow their professional skill sets. Women of Renewable Industries and Sustainable Energy (WRISE) We partner with the WRISE national non-profit organization to promote career opportunities within SunPower. WRISE’s national network allows the company to recruit women at all levels with renewable energy industry experience. University Recruiting SunPower is committed to hiring talent from HBCUs through our university recruiting program. We partner with organizations including the Society of Women Engineers and the National Society of Black Engineers to identify underrepresented talent graduating from U.S. universities. Gateway Community College Apprenticeship Program SunPower provides its customer care team opportunities to further their technical support skills through the Gateway Community College Technology Support Specialist Apprenticeship which is designed to provide fast, quality training in the classroom followed by paid, on-the-job training. Social—Hiring and Recruiting Partnerships 32 Women in Solar Programs SunPower, in partnership with Grid Alternatives and Solar Energy International (SEI), is dedicated to increasing career awareness and skill development for women in the solar sector trades. Grid Alternatives’ Women in Solar program provides pathways to technical careers, highlights the voices of women of color in the industry and provides national leadership on solar workforce diversity. This is how Grid Alternatives builds a diverse, equitable and inclusive solar industry. SEI’s Women in Solar Power program connects companies with women and provides solar energy training, networking and mentorship opportunities, and clean energy job connections. SunPower established a SunPower Women in Solar Scholarship, awarding $50,000 to cover tuition costs, travel expenses, lodging and daily per diem to hand-selected women and non-binary individuals. The initiative is a component of SunPower’s 25X25 DE&I commitments aimed at providing families, jobseekers and businesses who are in disadvantaged communities increased access to the many benefits of solar and energy storage. Employee-led Resource Groups We commit to providing resources and support for employee-led resource groups (ERGs) within SunPower. Our ERGs provide a safe and welcoming place where employees can feel heard, valued and accepted for who they are, creating allies across all levels of the company and helping to strengthen SunPower’s overall culture of inclusivity. For the latest information, visit us.sunpower.com/employee-resource-groups. The mission of 34+ is to create a safe and collaborative space for Black employees of SunPower, while empowering allies and building a stronger, more diverse community within the company. The group approaches its mission with a holistic vision by recognizing the many unique challenges faced by SunPower’s Black employees and caring for each of these parts including career and personal development, health and wellness, equity, social justice and community outreach. The Pride ERG strives to bring together and support LGBTQIA+ employees and allies at SunPower. By sharing ideas, identifying support resources and creating a safe, inclusive and equitable culture, the group aims to attract and retain LGBTQIA+ members at SunPower while helping to increase employment of LGBTQIA+ members in the overall solar market. The SunVets ERG exists to provide a network for veterans, their family members and non-serving supporters to develop a friendly community within SunPower, create and foster a safe space for sharing ideas and resources, and enhance the existing culture that continues to make SunPower an employer of choice in the communities where we serve, as well as in the overall solar market. Social—Employee-led Resource Groups 34 La Luz aims to foster an environment that helps SunPower’s Hispanic and Latinx employees succeed professionally, personally and in the community. La Luz is a group where people support each other through each of these areas via networking, volunteering and social events. EmpowHER’s mission is to support and advocate for a gender-balanced workplace where women can develop fulfilling careers and feel safe and empowered in their daily work. The group aims to increase the total number of women—as well as women in leadership roles—at SunPower by creating networking and mentoring opportunities, providing career and educational resources, promoting inclusive policies that enhance work-life balance and developing strategies and pathways for women to grow and thrive at work. At SunPower, employees are provided a safe space to discuss social issues they care about through its Employee-led Resource Groups (ERGs). Serving as Co-Lead of the EmpowHer ERG has increased my self-efficacy and shown me how to drive a high-trust culture through transformational leadership. Melissa Mitchell , M.C.M. East Coast Office Manager, SPRI Social—Employee-led Resource Groups 35 Health and Safety A Culture of Safety First SunPower is strongly committed to providing and maintaining a safe workplace, and we recognize our responsibility for the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers and stakeholders. We pursue continuous improvement by setting targets and objectives for health and safety, while at the same time conserving natural resources, minimizing waste and striving to provide an environmentally-friendly workplace at all times. Environmental Health and Safety To facilitate safe work conditions and ongoing improvements to SunPower’s operations, our established framework for environmental health and safety management includes commitments to: • Promote an injury-free workplace and prevent occupational illness • Protect the environment by minimizing pollution from business operations • Fulfill all applicable compliance obligations • Continually improve and enhance our environmental and safety performance • Solicit the participation of workers and their representatives • Minimize the environmental impact of SunPower products within the stages of their lifecycle • Optimize consumption of energy and limit greenhouse gas emissions to minimize contributions to climate change Flexible Work While SunPower continues to work under a flexible return-to-office work policy, in 2022, our offices re.opened to allow for in-person team collaboration and meetings. Keeping our workforce’s health and safety as our main priority, we regularly assess the COVID-19 situation and review the latest public health guidance leading to updated safety standards and protocols. Our people are key to successfully enabling a solar-powered future. It’s our number one priority to provide them a safe place to work—whether out on the field or in the office— as they help solve the energy challenge ahead of us. Doug Richards Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer Social—Health and Safety 36 Total Recordable Incident Rate1 We make safety a prominent part of our everyday jobs, and with the development and gathering of data, we can better analyze incidents and act to improve. SunPower tracks safety indicators monthly with a target of continuously reducing the total recordable incident rate (TRIR) for all employees and contractors. Our 2022 incident rates improved by 14% compared to 2021. April 2022 was dedicated to one of six SunPower values: We Put Safety First. We held a series of safety events and provided resources to ensure safety remains a central part of our business. The company follows the 12 Golden Rules of Safety, which were reemphasized through a live webinar with internal safety leaders. We revamped our STOP WORK policy, ensuring that employees are enabled to stop work on tasks that are deemed dangerous and/or for which they do not have the training, tools or experience. Employees are encouraged to participate by reporting potential safety issues through our Good Catch program. We also modeled our safety greenlight procedure after TotalEnergies and improved the personal protective equipment we use, including providing our teams with new safety helmets. Lastly, we introduced a new communication tool to enable fast deployment of safety information to, and quick acknowledgement responses from, field employees. Employee Safety1 Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), lost time recordable rate (LTRR) and recordable injury rate (RIR) 2.9 2.5 Caring for Our Workforce Our commitment begins with treating everyone with dignity and respect. But it doesn’t end there. We believe in the power of technology to empower and connect people around the world—and that business can and should be a force for good. Employee Engagement and Development A key component to meeting our company’s goals and fulfilling our mission is continuous development of our employees. Our commitment to employee development and training is guided by our mission and values, and our processes are designed to facilitate employee understanding of how their actions align with SunPower’s mission on a daily basis. We drive high performance and growth through our long-standing tradition of management by objective, with all work clearly linked back to our core values and our five strategic pillars. Employees receive feedback and coaching from their managers on a biannual basis, ensuring consistent growth and presenting an open channel of communication to outline career aspirations and development plans. We offer both mandatory and function-specific training programs through our learning management system and invest in our employees’ continued education and career development through our partnership with LinkedIn Learning. SunPower also supports self-development and educational efforts by providing reimbursement for many of the expenses associated with continuing education courses and certifications for its employees. Employees may pursue a degree, obtain career-related professional certifications or take individual courses at approved and accredited educational institutions under this program, provided the course of study is related to the employee’s current or probable future position. Engaged employees are absorbed in and enthusiastic about their work, find a greater sense of meaning in what they do, see a strong connection between their strengths and their role and expend discretionary effort in their performance. Measuring employee engagement is a valuable opportunity for everyone to provide open, honest and confidential feedback about what it is like to work at SunPower. On an annual basis, SunPower conducts employee engagement surveys using Glint, a people-centric architecture that captures data throughout the employee experience underpinned by the philosophy that higher quality, more frequent and better-informed conversations about engagement lead to fulfillment and success for people at work. Uncovering insights from employee feedback is only valuable if we take action. The Glint platform is designed to guide leaders through the process of improving engagement and driving results. We take consistent and deliberate action to create positive change based on employee input and strive to meet ambitious targets that differentiate us in the marketplace and as an employer of choice. We also create an environment where our people find success and, in turn, exhibit high levels of engagement—the combination of which make a difference to each individual and to our business as we work together to build an even greater company. Social—Caring for Our Workforce 38 Employee Benefits and Wellness SunPower creates a holistic culture of health and wellness by providing employees and their loved ones with valuable benefits and support systems. Our philosophy centers on empowering employees with the resources necessary to manage their own health and well-being, and designing a comprehensive and attractive package. In addition to meeting regulatory requirements in relevant markets in which we operate, we offer wellness benefits that include gym discounts, an employee assistance program (EAP), an adoption assistance program and commuter benefits, among others. SunPower offers a 401(k) retirement plan that includes employer matching up to a specified percentage. We provide 10 paid statutory holidays for all employees each year, plus additional holidays as may be locally applicable, paid personal time off for non-exempt employees and discretionary vacation for exempt employees. We also provide three paid days for volunteering per year. Pay Parity Our ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees. We are committed to providing equitable compensation to our employees, and we conduct annual pay parity reviews to identify and correct any inequities. SunPower’s comprehensive rewards system ensures that we are compensating and rewarding employees in line with market practices, and our pay-for.performance philosophy aligns employee interests with those of our stockholders by rewarding achievements that meet or exceed corporate goals. Parental Bonding Leave Becoming a parent or adding to a growing family is a beautiful and life-changing experience. We believe that each parent should have the time and freedom to bond with their new child. SunPower provides a Paid Parental Bonding Leave benefit for its U.S. benefits-eligible regular employees. The benefit applies to birthing and non-birthing parents, as well as to adoption or foster care and can be used in combination with state-issued benefits. Human Rights and Forced Labor Human trafficking and forced labor continue to be relevant and pressing challenges in many areas of the world. SunPower prohibits the practice of forced labor, child labor, bonded labor or any exploitative labor practices throughout our workforce, and we demand the same from our suppliers and business partners. SunPower respects the human rights and national laws of the countries in which we operate, including the rights of all employees and contingent workers within our company. We prohibit recruited employees from paying fees during recruitment, deterring the potential for forced labor, and we take proactive measures to protect the rights of our workers by offering human rights training programs, Compliance and Ethics Helpline and published materials on our human rights policies. We offer training to our employees on human rights that help identify, mitigate and report on human trafficking and slavery. Social—Caring for Our Workforce 39 Advocating for Change SunPower Giving SunPower encourages employees to give their time and money to causes that matter to them. Since 2015, we contributed over $2M through employee donations and SunPower matching funds—and have donated nearly 30,000 volunteer hours—to nonprofit organizations. In addition, the SunPower Foundation has also provided direct contributions and in-kind donations to non-profit organizations that align with the commitments of the Foundation. SunPower Foundation We believe that access to a healthy environment is a fundamental human right. That’s why we established the SunPower Foundation in 2008 with the mission of promoting equity and opportunities for disadvantaged communities through sponsorship of community projects and organizations committed to providing affordable solar and storage systems, access to solar energy and pathways to solar jobs for all. The scope of the SunPower Foundation was further refined following the announcement of the SunPower 25X25 initiative, to ensure that Foundation priorities were in alignment with the SunPower 25X25 commitments. In 2022, the SunPower Foundation donated 63kW of solar through Good Sun to benefit at least 10 Habitat for Humanity homes. And, as part of our partnership with We Share Solar, our Philippines employees built six solar suitcase kits which will be donated to remote communities. In total, the SunPower Foundation committed over $350k in 2022. Bright Funds SunPower matches employee charitable donations to eligible organizations dollar-for-dollar, up to $1,500 annually. Bridging technology and philanthropy, the company-wide Bright Funds platform makes it easier for employees to confirm organization eligibility, make charitable contributions, request employee donation matching and gift charitable donations. Throughout the year, we designate special periods in which we double our matching of employee-directed giving. The combined employee and employer donations to charitable organizations in 2022 was $208k. Team Volunteering SunPower offers employees three paid days of volunteering per year. The company encourages volunteerism through its company-sponsored events and its Dollars for Doers matching program. Under this program. SunPower matches each hour of volunteering at an approved charity with a $10 donation to that charity. Employees volunteered approximately 3,200 hours in 2022. Social—Advocating for Change 40 Our Philippines Workforce in Action Philippines Mangroves SunPower’s Regional Office Headquarters in the Philippines (SunPower Philippines), in cooperation with the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) and the Local Government of Batangas, adopted one hectare for mangrove planting. SunPower covers all expenses and costs in connection with the planting and maintenance of mangrove trees in the identified area. This initiative aims to protect the environment and provides support to the local farmers who supply the seedlings. As of 2022, over 11,000 seedlings have been planted by SunPower Philippines employees. Brigada Eskwela SunPower Philippines supports the annual Brigada Eskwela program by the Department of Education (DepEd) of the Philippine government. The program aims to foster community building that complements the government’s efforts and ensure delivery of quality basic education. SunPower and the beneficiary school, LOMA Elementary School, have collaborated to achieve this goal as the latter prepared for the 2022 academic year. SunPower employees donated school supplies and volunteered over 120 hours of their time to hand out the donations at the school in Binan, Laguna. Power2Share In 2022, employee volunteers from SunPower Philippines embarked on the Power2Share Employee Engagement Program, a solar suitcase build workshop in partnership with We Care Solar. The program has given volunteers an opportunity to learn how to build solar suitcases and develop a deeper understanding of how SunPower can empower local communities through these portable solar electric systems. A total of six solar suitcases were built, to be donated to qualified beneficiary organizations in less-electrified parts of the country. 