GovernanceWe believe in accountability. At SunPower, we set and maintain high standards for our employees, officers, directors and partners. We are committed to sound corporate governance, which is expressed through our comprehensive policies and processes for ethical operations.Governance42Board of DirectorsOur Board of Directors serve as a prudent fiduciary for all our shareholders and oversee the management of SunPower’s business. They take a proactive approach to their fiduciary duties and function as active monitors of corporate management, providing oversight in the formulation of the long-term strategic, financial and organizational goals of SunPower, and 
of the plans designed to achieve those goals.The Board has established committees to ensure that we maintain strong corporate governance standards. The Audit Committee assists the Board in ensuring we maintain the highest standards of financial integrity through accurate financial statements and compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The Compensation Committee upholds our compensation philosophy to reward and retain employees based on the achievement of goals and aims to align executive compensation with shareholder interests and priorities. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee identifies, recommends or selects qualified individuals to fill additional 
or vacant Board positions and oversees the development, maintenance and recommendation of 
a set of corporate governance principles. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is also charged with overseeing our diversity, equity and inclusion programs and our ESG programs and reporting.For more information about our Board of Directors, please see our Proxy Statement.Our Board of 
Directors serve as a prudent fiduciary for all our shareholders and oversee the management of SunPower’s business. Governance—Board of Directors43Unitary 
Board Type36%27%of Directors 
are independentof our Board members 
are womenwith a majority vote 
standardClassified 
Board StructurePublic
Disclosure 36%of our Board is gender, 
racially or ethnically diversewith controlling shareholder 
ownership classification of director nomination progress 
and proxy accessGovernance—Snapshot44Corporate Governance PrinciplesWe believe that strong corporate governance practices are the foundation of a successful, well-run company. Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Principles that set forth our core principles, including oversight responsibilities of the Board of Directors, election and responsibilities of the lead independent director, role of committees of the Board of Directors and assignment and rotation of members, meetings of independent directors without management and with outside auditors, membership criteria and selection of members of the Board of Directors, review of performance and compensation of executive officers and succession planning to key executive officers.  Business Code of Conduct and EthicsOur Code of Business Conduct and Ethics establishes and defines one of our company values: Do the Right Thing. The Code is a statement of SunPower’s expectations regarding personal and corporate conduct. In living by our Code, we strengthen our company culture and the communities we serve, earn and build the trust of our customers and investors, and achieve our goals—the right way. All people representing SunPower, including employees, contractors, officers and directors of the company, are required to comply with this Code. All employees are required to certify on an annual basis that they have read, understood and agree to comply with the Code.Related Party TransactionsPursuant to our Corporate Governance Principles and the charter of our Audit Committee, our 
Audit Committee will consider questions of actual and potential conflicts of interest (including corporate opportunities) of directors and officers and approve or prohibit such transactions. 
The Audit Committee will review and approve in advance all proposed related party transactions that would be required to be disclosed under Item 404 of Regulation S-K, in compliance with the applicable Nasdaq Stock Market rules. A related party transaction will only be approved if the Audit Committee determines that it is in our best interests. If a director is involved in the transaction, he or she will be recused from all voting and approval processes in connection with the transaction.Governance—Corporate Governance Principles, Business Code of Conduct and Ethics, Related Party Transactions45Whistleblower ProtectionSunPower provides a confidential and anonymous helpline through which reports of potential violations or ethical concerns may be submitted. Each report is transmitted to SunPower’s Investigations Coordination Committee which reviews each case and dispositions them following pre-established guidelines. We have a strict policy of non-retaliation which encourages our employees to report any behavior or actions they believe may violate the law or SunPower policies. Additionally, we are committed to creating and fostering an environment where open, honest communications are the expectation, not the exception. This policy allows employees and contractors to feel comfortable asking questions or raising concerns directly with their supervisors, the management team, human resources or the legal department.Risk ManagementSunPower’s Risk Management program supports management in identifying, assessing and monitoring risks and opportunities, and in developing mitigation initiatives and action plans in alignment with our strategy and business goals. Responsibility and accountability for risk management are embedded in all levels of our organization. We evaluate risks at enterprise and business unit levels through executive management engagement and internal reviews with senior leaders and managers of key functions. We conduct bottom-up risk assessments on an annual basis and assess risk components and outlook quarterly. The annual and quarterly risk assessment activities and results are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.Governance—Whistleblower Protection, Risk Management46Data Security and PrivacySunPower respects the privacy of its customers, employees and third parties. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and rules relating to the processing, storage, retention and collection of personal information. We keep abreast of evolving data security and privacy regulatory frameworks, and we regularly update our relevant internal policies and awareness materials. Employees are encouraged to review SunPower’s Global Data Protection Policy on an annual basis. Our employees also receive training related to data protection, including our Code of Conduct training. We continuously evaluate our information security policies and identify potential areas of improvement to mitigate cyber threats to the reliability and availability of our systems. Our Cyber Security Awareness newsletter include facts on the latest cyber threats and informs employees and contractors on best practices for protecting both the company and themselves. We regularly update our internal applications to install the latest security updates as appropriate. Additional information on the personal information we collect, its use and how we protect it can be found in our Privacy policy.Across our company—
from our governance processes and disclosures, to supply chain diligence or obtaining regulatory approvals and licenses necessary for our business—we are accountable. It’s our value and one that we will never compromise.Lauren WalzAssociate General CounselGovernance—Data Security and Privacy