POWERING OUR CUSTOMERS • Leading corporate solar users • World’s longest solar-powered flight • First PV recycling program • LEED certification • Water utilities POWERING OUR CUSTOMERS At SunPower, we empower our customers to generate their own clean, affordable, emissions-free electricity. In 2016, we set a new solar cell efficiency record for the industry, which enabled our customers to do even more with fewer resources—from flying around the world to running retail enterprises. Powering the industry’s leading  Businesses and organizations save money and reduce  solar users  greenhouse gas emissions with SunPower  According to a 2016 report by Advanced  Energy Economy, 71% of Fortune 100 companies and 43% of Fortune 500 companies have set renewable energy or sustainability targets. SunPower is helping many of those companies meet their ambitious goals. In 2016, the majority of the U.S.’s top 10 corporate solar users had SunPower systems: Apple, Hartz Mountain Industries, Macy’s, Prologis, Target and Walmart. Additionally, SunPower powers more than 500,000 households worldwide. While in the U.S. alone we power more than 100 federal, state and local government agencies; 37 colleges and universities; and 42 K-12 school districts. And many more like Hartz Mountain Industries, Prologis, Stanford University, Lowe’s, Ford, HP, Toyota, FedEx, JCPenney, and Johnson & Johnson. Powering the world’s longest solar-powered flight In 2016 the Solar Impulse 2, an airplane powered exclusively by SunPower solar cells, became the first solar plane to fly around the world. During its record-breaking 21,000-mile journey, the plane acted as a global messenger for renewable energy’s power to fight climate change. The Solar Impulse team plans to use what they learned from the flight to explore new applications of clean technology solutions worldwide. Watch the Solar Impulse 2 in action Creating the first photovoltaic (PV) recycling program SunPower was one of the first solar companies to offer PV recycling options to customers. And in 2016, we worked with the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) to develop the first industry-wide PV recycling program. Together with other solar companies, we are creating a national network of recyclers who can responsibly manage PV waste and keep it out of landfills. Building this infrastructure will make it easier for customers to recycle their panels at end of life. Enabling customers to achieve LEED certification SunPower helps builders and businesses earn additional LEED points because our direct current E-Series and X-Series panels are Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM Silver and our packaging materials are recyclable or reusable, which reduces construction waste. On a typical commercial system9 SunPower panels contribute up to 35% of the credits required for LEED certification. In fact, organizations can achieve up to 14 more LEED points with SunPower panels. 9. A typical project assumes core and shell or major renovation with at least 10% of the energy offset by solar, sufficient products to qualify for Material and Resource categories, and 33% of the hardscape covered with solar, or other heat island reducing coverings. Net-Zero Building SunPower helped the San Francisco Exploratorium achieve its vision of building a net zero facility. A 1.3-megawatt SunPower rooftop system now generates about 80% of the power for the museum, which is certified LEED Platinum®. Reducing water-related energy costs and emissions It takes a lot of energy for a utility to produce potable water and deliver it to customers. The cost of that electricity has been increasing in many parts of the country. When the Phelan Pin Hills Community Services District (PPHCSD) in San Bernardino County, Calif., saw its electricity bill increase by more than $300,000 in two years, it worked with SunPower to turn a retired dairy farm into a 1.5-megawatt solar site. This site now produces enough energy to offset 40% of the district’s water-related electricity costs. By using clean energy, each year PPHCSD avoids CO2 emissions equivalent to burning 2.5 million pounds of coal— enough to power 245 homes for one year. 