Governance Accountability is crucial, which is why we are committed to sound corporate governance at SunPower. We set and maintain high standards for our employees, officers, directors and partners and have implemented comprehensive policies and processes designed to continually strive to ensure ethical operations. Governance 42 Board of Directors Our Board of Directors serve as a prudent fiduciary for all our shareholders and oversee the management of SunPower’s business. Our directors take a proactive approach to their fiduciary duties and function as active monitors of corporate management, providing oversight in the formulation of the long.term strategic, financial and organizational goals of SunPower and the plans designed to achieve them. The Board has established committees to ensure that we continually strive to maintain strong corporate governance standards. The Audit Committee assists and guides the Board in maintaining the highest standards of financial integrity through accurate financial statements and compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The Compensation Committee upholds our compensation philosophy to reward and retain employees based on the achievement of goals and aims to align executive compensation with shareholder interests and priorities. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee identifies, recommends or selects qualified individuals to fill additional or vacant Board positions and oversees the development, maintenance and recommendation of a set of corporate governance principles. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is also charged with overseeing our DE&I and ESG programs and reporting. Governance—Board of Directors 43 Corporate Governance Principles We believe that strong corporate governance practices are the foundation of a successful, well-run company. Our core principles are set forth in our Corporate Governance Principles, as adopted by our Board of Directors. These principles include oversight responsibilities of the Board of Directors, responsibilities of the lead independent director, role of Director committees and assignment and rotation of members, meetings of independent directors, and membership criteria and selection of members of the Board. The Corporate Governance Principles also include standards for reviewing the performance and compensation of executive officers, and succession planning for key executive officers. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics establishes and defines one of our company values: Do the Right Thing. The Code is a statement of SunPower’s expectations regarding personal and corporate conduct. In living by our Code, we strengthen our company culture and the communities we serve, earn and build the trust of our customers and investors, and achieve our goals—the right way. All people representing SunPower, including employees, contractors, officers and directors of the company, are required to comply with this Code. All employees are required to certify on an annual basis that they have read, understood and agree to comply with the Code. Related Party Transactions Pursuant to our Corporate Governance Principles and the charter of our Audit Committee, our Audit Committee will consider questions of actual and potential conflicts of interest (including corporate opportunities) of directors and officers and approve or prohibit such transactions. The Audit Committee will review and approve in advance all proposed related party transactions that would be required to be disclosed under Item 404(b) of Regulation S-K, in compliance with the applicable NASDAQ Stock Market rules. A related party transaction will only be approved if the Audit Committee determines that it is in the company’s best interest. If a director is involved in the transaction, he or she will be recused from all voting and approval processes in connection with the transaction. Whistleblower Protection SunPower provides a confidential and anonymous helpline through which reports of potential violations of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or ethical concerns may be submitted. Each report is transmitted to SunPower’s Investigations Coordination Committee which reviews each case and dispositions them following pre-established guidelines. We have a strict policy of non-retaliation which encourages our employees to report any behavior or actions they believe may violate the law or SunPower policies. Additionally, we are committed to creating and fostering an environment where open, honest communications are the expectation, not the exception. This policy allows employees and contractors to feel comfortable asking questions or raising concerns directly with their supervisors, the management team, human resources, the legal department or anonymously through the helpline. Enterprise Risk Management SunPower’s Enterprise Risk Management program supports management in identifying and assessing risks and opportunities, and in developing action plans to mitigate risk in alignment with our strategy and business goals. Responsibility and accountability for risk management are embedded in all levels of our organization. We evaluate and monitor risks at the enterprise level through executive management engagement, internal reviews with leaders of key functions, and monitoring of key risk indicators. We conduct bottom-up risk assessments on an annual basis and assess risk components and outlook quarterly. Our annual and quarterly risk assessment activities and results are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Governance—Whistleblower Protection, Enterprise Risk Management 45 Data Security and Privacy SunPower respects the privacy of its customers, employees and third parties. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and rules relating to the processing, storage, retention and collection of personal information. We stay abreast of evolving data security and privacy regulatory frameworks, and we regularly update our relevant internal policies and awareness materials. Employees are encouraged to review SunPower’s Global Data Protection Policy on an annual basis. Our employees also receive training related to data protection, including our Information Security Awareness Training and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We continually evaluate our information security policies and identify potential areas of improvement to mitigate cyber threats to the reliability and availability of our systems. Our Cyber Security Awareness newsletter includes facts on the latest cyber threats and informs employees and contractors of best practices for protecting both the company and themselves. We regularly update our internal applications to install the latest security updates as appropriate. Additional information on the personal information we collect, its use and how we protect it can be found in our privacy policy. Good governance is fundamental to business success. At SunPower, we strive to maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct in the decisions we make—from the suppliers we work with to the customers we serve with our solar, storage and clean energy solutions. Governance—Data Security and Privacy 46 