Environment Since 1985, SunPower has been helping Americans transition to solar. Our work is motivated by a mission to address the environmental challenges facing the United States and the world. Every dollar we spend, along with each of our employees, is dedicated to that mission. We are simultaneously committed to reducing the environmental impact of our operations by refining our processes and introducing new innovations to limit our carbon footprint. Environment 16 Environmental Goals and Progress While our products and services make a tangible difference in the fight against climate change, we recognize carbon emissions are created in our company’s regular operations. In 2022, SunPower made progress towards reaching our established goals to reduce carbon emissions and maximize the positive impact our company has on the environment by 2030. Our efforts, which included the implementation of electric vehicles into our fleet, resulted in a reduction of over 37,000 pounds of CO2 emissions from our operations. Topic Goals Baseline1 Status Target Year Notes Establish a net zero carbon emissions We look at ways to increase intermodal use and 1 program for our material and freight network 28 19 0 2030 optimize shipment loading and timing to achieve (GHG MT / MWd)2 our target. Greenhouse Gas Our progress is limited by the current number of Emissions electric and hybrid vehicle models suitable to our Convert our U.S. fleet vehicles to Hybrid or 2 0% 5% 90% 2030 operations. We continue to partner with vehicle Electric Vehicles manufacturers to enable the renewal of expiring leases with electric or hybrid vehicles. Through the installation of solar systems, enable We continue to invest in product, digital and  Carbon Emissions 3 our customers to generate 200 million metric 80M 123M 200M 2030 financial platforms to increase our growth and tons of carbon emissions equivalent reduction3 expand our customer coverage. 1 Baseline is 2020. 2 Excludes Blue Raven Solar. MWd is defined as megawatts deployed. Environmental Impact SunPower is helping customers and communities drive down carbon emissions. SunPower-enabled solar projects have generated 173 terawatt-hours (TWh)—since 2005. This is equivalent to a reduction of 123 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)1. In 2022, SunPower enabled its customers to generate 27 TWh of clean electricity. This is equivalent to reduction of 19 million metric tons of CO2e1. 173 TWh 123 Million Estimated TWh of electricity generated by SunPower-enabled solar installations and estimated CO2 equivalent reduction. This is equivalent to negating greenhouse This is equivalent to carbon sequestered by: gas emissions from: 26 Million Passenger vehicles driven for one year 136 Billion Pounds of coal burned 24 Million Homes’ electricity use for one year 14 Billion Gallons of gasoline consumed 145 Million Acres of U.S. forests in one year 2 Billion Tree seedlings grown for 10 years Decarbonizing Our Business SunPower’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions calculations1 follow the guidance provided in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Scope 1 We updated our Scope 1 and 2 emissions to include Blue Raven Solar’s2 Emissions operations, driving the increase in 2022 from the revised 2021 results. U.S. vehicle fleet Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions GHG Emissions Intensity Scope 1, 2 and 3 Carbon Footprint (Metric Tons of CO2e, Thousands) 30.3 58.8 Scope 2 Emissions Electricity and gas consumptions from our U.S. and Philippines leased offices and warehouses Scope 3 Emissions U.S. material transportation, business travel, employee shuttle and work from home Metric Tons of CO2e / Megawatt Deployed Metric Tons of CO2e / Millions Revenue 1 Calculations are inclusive of the CIS business through its sale in May 2022. 2 Blue Raven Solar was acquired by SunPower in 2021. Environment—Decarbonizing Our Business 19 Energy Management Our energy usage reflects our consumption of electricity and gas from our leased offices and warehouses in the U.S. and the Philippines. The expiration of two major office leases in 2022 contributed to the 36% decline in energy used. We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our operations by defining facility selection criteria to limit our carbon footprint. Energy Used Electricity and Gas Consumption from Offices and Warehouses (Gigawatt Hours) We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our operations by refining our processes and introducing new innovations to limit our carbon footprint. Energy Intensity 59.0 56.230.4 26.9 41.3 Metric Tons of Hours  / Megawatt Deployed 19.4 Metric Tons of Hours  / Millions Revenue 14.0 23.0 14.7 8.2 2019 2020 2021 2022 2019 2020 2021 2022 Environment—Energy Management 20 Building a Sustainable Transportation and Freight Network One of the ways we are decarbonizing our transportation network is by deploying electric and hybrid vehicles. We are preparing our systems and facilities to accommodate the large-scale adoption of zero-emission vehicles now and in the coming years, which will require a new refueling operations system and infrastructure. The company supports the requirements of the Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay Shipper and is actively seeking cost-effective and environmentally efficient freight transportation to reduce our freight carbon footprint. We are working to reduce carbon emissions for our U.S. material and freight network by establishing programs to achieve net zero by 2030. Additionally, we plan to convert at least 90% of our U.S. fleet vehicles to hybrid or electric vehicles (EV) by 2030. In 2022, SunPower collaborated with Revolv, a full-service provider of electric medium-to-heavy commercial fleets, to initiate active deployments of fifty-six EVs across nine sites, addressing the needs of SunPower’s residential installation and upstream logistics fleets in California. We coordinated efforts with vehicle technology providers, implemented an upgraded installer package that improves driver safety and efficiency, and began delivering monthly metrics that highlighted operational effectiveness. Additionally, we leveraged several incentive programs across both vehicles and infrastructure to minimize cost, including Energiize, California HVIP, PG&E EV Fleet program, Southern California Edison (SCE) Charge Ready Transport program, San Diego Gas & Electric Company (SDGE) and Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP). The management of the programs, as well as proactive energy use management (non-peak charging, EV-based rate programs) provided significant savings for each project contracted. With the help of the California site teams, we launched seven EV charging stations and incorporated EVs into our fleet. SunPower also engaged fellows from the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) program to explore route optimization and planning across our North American operations. Ultimately, our efforts in 2022 resulted in a reduction of approximately 37,000 pounds of CO2 emissions from operations, as well as several important lessons learned that we will work to deploy in 2023. Some of the key learnings include the importance of route planning, real estate selection and coordination, warehouse design and optimization, and driver education and awareness. These learnings have led to greater engagement with the key functions within SunPower that will help us achieve our collective ESG goals. Environment—Building a Sustainable Transportation & Freight Network 21 Water and Waste Management Our current water and waste reduction efforts are from our California and Philippines offices and warehouses. The decrease in our water consumption and waste related metrics is primarily attributable to the closure of our Hillsboro, Oregon facility in 2021. As we look to new facility arrangements, we will leverage industry best practices and emerging technologies in facility design to drive reductions across carbon, energy, water and waste. We will focus on the direct emissions that result from powering our facilities, as well as the indirect emissions from the embodied carbon. Water Consumption Total Waste Waste Recycled Water Footprint from Various Facilities Waste from Facilities and Offices Percentage of Total Waste Recycled (Gallons, Millions) (Metric Tons) (%) 10.2 9.9 1,207 9.1 63.0%830 58.8% 59.3%54.7%6.3 298 291 2019 2020 2021 2022 2019 2020 2021 2022 2019 2020 2021 2022 Environment—Water and Waste Management 22 Product Recycling We maintain a national network of innovative, approved recyclers for our electrical, mechanical and solar panel waste streams. We first test, then reuse or resell components that have remaining life and ship unusable inventory to Responsible Recycling (R2:2013)—specialized recyclers with robust downstream partners for the circular use of extracted raw materials and precious metal recovery (e.g. glass, aluminum, etc.). We are also developing end-of-life practices with companies that specialize in responsible battery handling, disposal and recycling. Additionally, we have taken steps to minimize the freight mileage for our waste streams by using direct shipments to lower the carbon footprint of reverse logistics. SunPower works with regional PV recyclers across the country to provide customers with better access to module recycling and to lessen our waste streams’ freight mileage. We currently have recyclers in Oregon, Arizona, Texas and Ohio. Our PV recyclers have some or all of the following certifications: • ISO9001: Quality Management Systems • ISO14001:2004: Environmental Management Systems • OSHAS 18001: Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems • R2/RIOS Certified Electronics Recycler® • e-Stewards Standard for Responsible Recycling and Reuse of Electronics® 2009 • Responsible Recycling 2008 By requiring our recyclers to have these certifications, we ensure material is properly processed, sorted, inspected and dismantled into appropriate subsequent waste streams for reuse or scrap treatment. Additionally, SunPower’s master services agreement with primary recyclers includes language that requires secondary material handlers are R2:2013 or e-Stewards Certified. We constantly look for ways within supply chain to live up to SunPower’s mission to change the way our world is powered. This includes reducing waste through recycling programs, engaging suppliers that embrace similar clean energy goals and electrifying our fleet to reduce the carbon footprint of solar.” Environment—Product Recycling 23 Pallet Reuse Program  As a leading residential solar technology and energy service provider, we receive and ship solar and battery storage systems across our distribution channels ending up on our customers’ rooftops. Shipments make use of wooden pallets to package these solar products safely and securely as they move across the country to the end customer.  As new products arrive, distribution centers would buy new pallets for shipping; whereas customers and warehouses were paying fees to dispose of unused pallets. The pallets were not used efficiently, and the repeat cycle created unnecessary waste. In August of 2020, our logistics team implemented the pallet reuse program. Based on preset quotas to maximize truck loads, pallets were picked up from the customer sites, moved to warehouses and then returned to the distribution centers to be reused. This reuse program enabled savings of more than $780,000, with about 12,930 pallets returned over the two years since program inception. This is a win for both the company’s bottom line as well as for the environment, as it eliminates the need to purchase new pallets and saves the equivalent of 970,000 lbs of wood. Supplier Code of Conduct In our efforts to ensure SunPower operations are carried out under the highest legal, financial and sustainability standards, we published a Supplier Code of Conduct in the latter part of 2022. SunPower requires suppliers to conduct their business relationships using the same standards to which we hold ourselves and our employees. The Code establishes standards in six areas: 1 Business and Personal Ethics 2 Respect for Human Rights 3 Selected Compliance Matters 4 Health and Safety 5 Environmental Sustainability 6 Management Systems Conflict Minerals SunPower’s commitment to human rights extends to the sourcing of products, including minerals sourced from high-conflict areas. SunPower fully supports the goals and objectives of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. SunPower does not knowingly support armed conflict in high-risk areas. We adhere to all applicable foreign and U.S. federal laws related to the use of “conflict” minerals, and we have incurred and will continue to incur costs necessary to source conflict-free products. Read our Conflict Minerals Policy. Human Rights Statement In alignment with SunPower’s company value to “Do the Right Thing,” SunPower is committed to human rights as defined by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Conventions of the International Labor Organization, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the UN Global Compact. Our Human Rights Statement sets out SunPower’s expectations for third parties with whom we do business and guides our employees on their diligence of our vendors and service providers. Doing the right thing means holding our suppliers to the same ethical standards to which we hold ourselves. We require our suppliers to acknowledge our Human Rights Statement and their Commitment to the Elimination of Human Trafficking and Slavery from Supply Chains, and retain the right to terminate any suppliers who violate our standards. 