PEOPLEWe consider our employees 
a competitive advantage and our greatest asset. We foster a culture that supports diversity and inclusion, and provide a safe, healthy and rewarding work environment with opportunities for growth.As a global leader in refining and renewable products, Valero is dedicated to safety, excellence and accountability. As an employer of choice, Valero is also dedicated to caring for its greatest strategic advantage – its people. RESILIENCE IN A CHALLENGING YEARThe well-being of every Team Valero member is our highest priority, from health and financial wellness to rewarding career development. In 2020, as the global pandemic changed our world and disrupted the work and personal lives of our people, this promise took on a new level of importance, requiring agility and resilience in the face of uncertainty. These unrivaled challenges did not dismantle our teams or change who we are. They elevated our faith – in our programs, in our culture and in each other.As one team, we understood our purpose in a way that connected us to one another, and motivated our teams to innovate and build upon what we already had in place. The pandemic tested – and confirmed – the foundational strength of our values and wellness priorities in ways we could not imagine. With creative tools and teams, the year inspired new ways to stay safe and connected, allowing commitments to our stakeholders to continue. It also unlocked greater empathy for each other and our diverse perspectives – and a heightened awareness of the value of listening and understanding.Our most challenging year in history brought out the best in our people – nearly 10,000 employees who responded in a crisis, creating products that fuel modern life and enable industries in virtually every part of society to keep going.“What separated us from the rest were the people, programs and processes already in place to protect us. Safety-minded industries like ours do not wait for a pandemic to start guarding up. Minimizing risk is ingrained in our culture, a set of values that positioned us to respond quickly and move forward safely as one team, leading the future of energy.” Julia Rendon ReinhartSENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICERDRIVING SUCCESS THROUGH CULTUREFor more than 40 years, Valero has enlisted the world’s best and brightest engineers, operators and business professionals to drive exceptional company results. As a competitive advantage, our people deserve an exceptional work environment that opens doors to new ideas, cultivates diverse and inclusive teams, and promotes a safe, 
healthy and rewarding career.312ACCOUNTABILITYEmployees make a personal choice to take ownership of performance. Creating an environment of accountability helps achieve important company goals and drives exceptional employee performance.TEAMWORKStrong teams are the drivers of a successful organization. Valero believes that great teamwork and strong relationships are built through respectful collaboration, the sharing of diverse ideas and perspectives, and strong communication.SAFETYSafety is the foundation of success at Valero, and ensures our company’s greatest asset – our people – are protected. From workplace safety to health and wellness, employees are encouraged to promote and demonstrate their commitment to safety at all times.•	Hire and promote only top-tier talent with team-oriented work ethics and values that align with Valero’s mission•	Offer competitive pay, benefits and support programs that reward innovation, ingenuity and excellence•	Ensure a best-in-class, diverse and inclusive work environment built on a foundation of respect, accountability and trust•	Promote a learning culture to drive excellence at all levels of the organization•	Provide career-long growth and development opportunities for all employees•	Continually assess employee performance, organizational structures and succession plans to ensure operational excellence, maximum efficiency and effectivenessPEOPLE STRATEGYRooted in our long-standing company culture, our people strategy enables us to meet important business and strategic objectives. In building great teams, we are guided by the following:Valero’s long-standing culture values help achieve strong results. Coupled with well-defined expectations of ethics and behavior, these principles were our compass and source of inspiration in 2020, reinforcing Valero’s pledge to be a caring employer and responsible member of the U.S. critical infrastructure.456DO THE RIGHT THINGOur commitment to integrity means doing the right thing for the right reason, regardless of the circumstances. Our people are trustworthy and continually set positive examples, which lead to open, honest and sincere communication.CARINGThrough caring, we create opportunities to positively impact the teams we support, the environment we share, the customers we serve and the communities where we live and work.EXCELLENCEValero employees treat every day like game day – working hard; staying focused, disciplined and positive; and continually striving to meet objectives that keep all of Team Valero energized and performing at their best.COVID-19 LEFT NO INDUSTRY OR COMMUNITY UNTOUCHEDTeam Valero’s extraordinary ability to adapt in a crisis provided a strategic advantage, as the work environment quickly adjusted to changing safety protocols throughout the year. Valero’s COVID-19 Response Team understood its responsibility to educate and guide our people in order to stay safe and minimize disruption to our operations. Our agility allowed business to move forward safely alongside daily COVID-19 case management and extensive employee and family support, including:•	No furloughs, layoffs or pay reductions due to COVID-19•	Continued employee rewards, including annual merit increases, employee bonus program and long-term incentives•	Enhanced robust medical benefits, including treatment of COVID-19 symptoms without member cost share, access to virtual care and second-opinion consultation, mental health support and COVID-19 safety education•	Emotional health and stress management resources through enhanced employee assistance program and other resources, including free crisis hotline•	Continued annual wellness assessments for more than 3,007 employees; on-site clinic/physician support for pediatric, chronic care and seasonal care•	Expanded family illness leave to cover time spent caring for children •	Broader access to employee 401(k) accounts to assist with financial hardships (such as family member job loss)•	Virtual fitness programs and financial education to promote physical activity and mental well-being•	Continued on-site child care, virtual and in-person summer camp and school-age sibling support•	On-demand community vaccine scheduling and on-site vaccination events at multiple work sites•	Transparent case management; contact tracing and vaccination reporting; verification of no workplace transmission•	Continued safety updates and Personal Protection Equipment (PPE)•	Extensive virtual training on phased return-to-work measures and “Stay Healthy” workplace protocols•	Reconfigured workstations to support social distancing; touchless office technologies; enhanced HVAC systems; site-based sanitation, disinfection•	Digital library of health/wellness and family support resources; video discussions with medical and trusted advisers on science behind COVID-19•	Continued small-business and contractor partnerships to strengthen community stability (such as on-site janitorial, food service and child care providers)•	Full municipal health inspection clearanceAs a result of these efforts and significant employee
support in 2020, Valero achieved the best year ever 
in combined employee and contractor refinery safety.“Taking the COVID-19 vaccine is the most important thing we will do in 2021, personally and professionally. Our strengthened immunity will do much more than protect us as individuals – it will protect the people we care about, be they family or valued co-workers. The vaccine will reopen doors and restore our ability to travel, work, entertain, attend school and live life. When that happens, everyone benefits.”
Joe GorderCHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERA SHOT OF HOPE: Valero Refineries Step Up for COVID-19 VaccinesSeven members of the Valero Memphis Refinery’s Emergency Response Team (ERT) ended 2020 with a shot of hope, becoming the first operations team in the company to receive the COVID-19 vaccine.As a state-certified fire department, the Valero Memphis Fire Department provides mutual aid for the community at large as well as emergency response inside the refinery. Valero’s Memphis ERT and all first responders in Shelby County, Tennessee, were offered access to vaccinations in late December 2020.Just a week after Memphis ERT members took their shots, 79 employees in Three Rivers, Texas, stepped up to be vaccinated on-site. By June 2021, more than 4,000 Valero employees had shared their vaccination status. With 24/7 support from Health by Design, an approved vaccine distributor and operator of several on-site employee and family wellness centers across the company, Valero was able to quickly and safely connect employees with vaccines at its Corpus Christi, Houston, McKee, Port Arthur, Texas City and Three Rivers refineries, as well as at company headquarters in San Antonio. Other refineries heavily encouraged employees to get vaccinated through community providers.World’s Best Employers
(highest-ranked refiner)America’s Best Employers By StateTOTAL WELLNESS IN A CHANGING WORLD From its inception, our Total Wellness program has stayed focused on helping Team Valero perform at its best by providing exceptional benefits, programs and resources that support our employees’ physical, mental and financial well-being. This established framework for wellness played a critical role in our ability to continue operations in 2020. As employees did their best to stay focused while keeping their families safe, Valero concentrated on providing the wellness tools and services necessary to maintain stability and help its people move forward safely. Highlights of U.S.-based benefits
SUBJECT TO AVAILABILITY BY WORK LOCATION AND ELIGIBILITY: Using CDC-guided safety measures and additional investments, the Valero Family Center in San Antonio provided uninterrupted care for Valero employees to return to work with peace of mind while keeping caregivers employed during the COVID-19 shutdown. Services include curbside drop-off to transfer children safely to awaiting staff, and teacher-assisted virtual learning rooms. In addition, modified summer camps and discounts allowed more children and siblings to attend.Our Total Wellness program continues to serve as the cornerstone of our employee and family support system, and as a reflection of our deep commitment to a happier, healthier Team Valero.Maintaining Total Wellness Engagement & Education in 2020Weight Loss
Program3,007 employees participated in 
free annual 
wellness/medical assessments367
 attendees918 
hours Planning 
for Retirement190
attendees 380 
hours Financial 
Habits that Matter87 
attendees 
in Cardiovascular Education796
employees enrolled in Real Appeal 3,071
pounds of 
weight lost COMPENSATION AND FINANCIAL WELLNESSAttracting and retaining the best people in our industry requires a layered and uniquely personal approach to financial stability. Valero’s compensation and financial wellness strategy greatly supports these objectives, providing motivation, rewards and investment opportunities for an exceptional workforce. We offer market-competitive pay, including annual bonus and merit increase programs that celebrate individual performance as well as companywide success. While our bonuses are governed by the company’s various operational, financial and strategic objectives, our merit increases reflect an individual’s excellence, professional growth and impact on their team. We strengthen individual financial wellness even further through retirement benefits, financial education programs and events, and 
on-demand resources.Well-Rounded CompensationValero provides fulfilling jobs with excellent pay and benefits. As disclosed in our 2021 Proxy Statement, the median of the annual total compensation of all employees of Valero for 2020, except our CEO, was $215,048. Characteristics of our compensation practices and financial wellness programs include: •	Competitive Pay & Discretionary Annual Bonus •	Long-term Incentive (Stock) Awards that recognize exceptional work and strengthen talent retention•	“Living Wage” Commitment for our lowest-paid workers (less than 1% of our U.S. workforce paid less than $20/hour)•	401(k) Retirement Savings Program with dollar-for-dollar company match up to 7% of base pay•	Cash-Balance Pension Benefit (available to most U.S. employees) with an annual company contribution equaling 6% to 12% of annual base pay plus bonus, depending on age and years of service•	Financial Security and Planning, Education and TrainingDIVERSITY, EQUALITY AND INCLUSION (DEI)In 2020:•	Approximately 30% of our global professional employees were female, and 19% of total employees were female.•	Approximately 35% of our U.S. employees self-identified as Hispanic or Latino, Native American, Pacific Islander, Asian, Black or African American, or of two or more races. This reflects relative improvement of 9.4% over 2015.•	Valero has been recognized as a company committed to supporting gender equality through transparency and the advancement of women in the workplace and in the communities where it operates.We aim to attract and retain a talented, diverse workforce and foster a culture of inclusion by selecting people and leaders who believe in its importance. Valero is built on the power of ideas. An exceptional blend of diverse talents, backgrounds and problem-solvers, with a greater mission in mind: work together to create quality products that fuel our lives. Our PeopleU.K./Ireland
857Canada
659Global Headcount
~10,000U.S.
8,476Peru
120Mexico
26DEI StrategyFrom its board of directors and executive management to its broader workforce, Valero recognizes the value and benefits of diversity, and the impact that comes from truly inclusive teams. Our efforts are reinforced through leadership, hiring practices and training. Supervisors are given feedback strategies that acknowledge individual contributions and inspire success. Job descriptions are reviewed to ensure gender neutrality and inclusion. Recruiting strategies focus on objective hiring and unconscious bias, and drive outreach to under-represented populations as we continue to build a more diverse workforce. Valero’s diversity demographics meet or exceed industry benchmarks in most categories, but we are firmly committed to continue building more diverse and inclusive teams.Leadership
18% Women   23% MinorityMillennials & Gen Z35%22%
7% 6%HispanicAfrican AmericanOtherMinority35%Tenure51% > 10 years serviceWomen19%11%
30%HourlyProfessionalSee page 108 for a copy of the EEO-1 report.2020 DEI EFFORTS SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE INITIATIVES•	Assessment of companywide opportunities to increase diversity, from workforce recruitment to charitable giving, procurement and governance. Julia Rendon Reinhart, Valero’s Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, also serves as the company’s Chief Diversity Officer. With active involvement by Valero’s executive team, and oversight by the company’s board of directors, she leads a dedicated DEI staff to develop strategies and programs that encourage open conversation and drive successful outcomes for all of Valero’s DEI efforts. At least annually, Reinhart reports to the board on DEI initiatives and outcomes, including as part of Valero’s annual incentive bonus program.•	Established a team of 16 diversity ambassadors across U.S. sites to provide inclusive dialogue and ideas in three focus areas: workforce recruitment and retention, education and awareness, and effective communication.•	Dedicated DEI team focused on recruitment, training and development, compensation, benefits and retention programs to improve diversity and gender balance at all levels, and enhance our hiring, retention and career development of women and minorities.•	Launched the first Minority Engineering Summit to engage talented minority engineering freshman students and share insight on the industry and our company, as an exceptional employer and career-builder. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, an in-person summit was postponed to 2021. •	Maintained partnership in the “We Are Leaders” high school summer internship program, which builds awareness about Valero as a top employer and offers young students a chance to earn valuable work experience with a Fortune 500 company.•	Featured Diversity Month observances through an interactive newsletter, which offered leadership commentary on success strategies and recruitment, internship and culture information for university career centers, and Valero’s commitment to DEI.•	Encourage open discussion of DEI issues through special events and quarterly book forums available to all employees.•	A voluntary survey sent to all U.S. employees in 2020 finding 18% of our U.S. workforce identifies with at least one disability. This exceeds federal requirements for workforce opportunity for the disabled.For 40 years, Valero’s leadership has supported a national scholarship program for college-bound children of employees. Julia Rendon Reinhart (pictured, left, with a recent scholarship winner) is the company’s highest-ranking Hispanic leader as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. She also serves as Valero’s Chief Diversity Officer. Since 1981, 734 scholarships have been issued, totaling over $6 million.Expanding Opportunity Valero’s Minority Engineering Summit introduces promising college freshmen engineering students to future careers in energy. By fueling their success with a $1,500 academic scholarship, the program also builds awareness about Valero. Due to COVID-19 restrictions in 2020, an in-person event was not possible. Nevertheless, scholarships were awarded to deserving students. An in-person event ultimately was held in May 2021.For more information on our DEI commitment and workplace efforts, visit us at www.valero.com/careers FUELING THE FUTURE FOR VETERANSRepresenting 12% of our U.S. workforce, many of the nation’s veterans and reservists have chosen to join Valero’s ranks following their honorable service. From the start, these talented men and women understand the importance of safety protocols, team culture and mission. They embody the Valero spirit. As an equal opportunity employer and federal contractor, Valero welcomes this proud workforce and appreciates their contributions to our success. We look forward to continuing our relationships with many military hiring organizations and impactful volunteer programs:•	Alpha Omega Homes•	American GI Forum•	Centurian Military Alliance (CMA)•	City of Refuge Homeless Veterans Shelter•	Disabled American Veterans•	Folds of Honor•	Institute for Veterans and Military Families / Syracuse University•	Soldiers’ Angels•	Texas Military Honors Team•	U.S. Vets Long Beach•	USO Pathfinder ProgramEqual Pay CommitmentValero’s compensation program supports fair treatment and equal pay concepts. Built upon a foundational philosophy of market-competitive and performance-based pay, decisions are based on an employee’s qualifications and performance with respect to job requirements and performance standards, and with consideration of the pay, qualifications and performance of peer employees. Included in these strategies and processes are regular anti-bias training for managers and prevention of “inherited” pay disparities in hiring and offer processes. Valero regularly analyzes pay equity of the U.S. professional workforce through an independent legal third party. When considering factors that appropriately differentiate pay such as time in role and pay grade, Valero has equal pay among genders as well as among minority/non-minority employees.VALERO SPONSORS EXCLUSIVE DEBUT OF
‘LIVING IN MY SKIN’ PORTRAIT EXHIBITION“This project was blessed from day one. It happened so naturally – from a simple and honest discussion that I never expected. I’m so proud that Valero is on the front end of this project. The exhibition’s potential to make connections and build understanding is worth every effort taken to bring the presentation to life. Real change happens one person, one heart at a time.”A powerful art exhibition on the lives of Black men in San Antonio made its exclusive debut at Valero Headquarters in early 2021.Titled “Living in My Skin – Black Men in San Antonio Share Their Stories,” the oil-on-canvas portrait series by nationally renowned artist Lionel Sosa featured 33 subjects ranging in age from 10 to 90 – from vastly different socio-economic backgrounds but with shared experiences.Their stories drew connections between men young and old from every walk of life – from judges and CEOs to military leaders and the homeless. The collection also inspired open conversation among employees. Exhibition sponsorship proceeds supported scholarships for local college students.The first image painted for the portrait series was of Seymour Battle, Valero Senior Vice President-Communications, PR and Engagement, following a chance meeting with the artist in 2020. Battle also served as executive producer of a two-part documentary on the project, which aired on public television in February 2021 in honor of Black History Month.Seymour BattleSENIOR VICE PRESIDENT-COMMUNICATIONS, 
PR AND ENGAGEMENTTALENT ACQUISITION/ RECRUITMENTValero’s Fueling Exceptional Futures brand is both a philosophy and a promise, to cultivate teams that find success through innovation and sharing of ideas. For their excellence, we pledge to deliver exceptional career rewards and experiences.In 2020, Valero’s talent acquisition teams tapped into more creative options to safely connect with job applicants and intern candidates. As our interview and recruitment efforts shifted to online platforms, our teams adapted quickly. Virtual interviews allowed managers to adjust to changing environments and continue important hiring efforts across multiple organizations. In 2020, Valero’s refining operations did not stop, and neither did the programs we depend upon to build a better Team Valero. Staying true to our values and guiding principles, we:•	Maintained entry-level and experienced hiring through extensive health and safety precautions•	Adapted interview techniques to virtual format and added necessary safety training and support for new-employee integration•	Enhanced technology and room configurations to safely deliver training content in multiple ways•	Held an in-person summer 2020 Valero Intern Program, a key driver of our full-time workforce recruiting efforts, with added safety measures and support for students traveling to Valero locations across the U.S. Learn more about our intern program, page 90.•	Launched an all-virtual fall 2020 recruiting season to engage college students for future internship consideration“During a time of uncertainty, we were easily able to conduct virtual interviews and fulfilled our hiring needs without any delay. Virtual interviews were more convenient for the candidate and hiring manager, and they allowed us to have large panel interviews while maintaining everyone’s safety.”  –  Tammy Bauer, Accounting Manager5%
Other Non-Exempt14%
Intern
Conversion2020 NEW HIRES BY CATEGORY 56%
Operations/Maintenance(Field Hourly)25%
ProfessionalTHE VALERO INTERN PROGRAM: VITAL PIPELINE FOR TOMORROW’S WORKFORCEThe Valero Intern Program harnesses the nation’s top talent through hands-on learning, mentorship and professional development. Our intern program creates a vital pipeline for tomorrow’s workforce, one that values innovation, teamwork and the sharing of diverse ideas. Rather than block this pipeline of talent during COVID-19 response, we re-imagined its execution and honored our commitments to nearly 200 interns. Today, many of them serve as full-time members of Team Valero. In fact, 60% of our 2020 engineering hires stem from this talented internship community.The Valero Intern Program class of 2020 was the most diverse in the history of our program, with 33% of the class (65 of 198) representing diversity of race. Using advanced digital technology across two platforms and 18 Valero sites, we created a safe and meaningful internship experience for high-performing college students in engineering, accounting, commercial trading, legal, communications, and information systems and cybersecurity. Compared with 2015, In total, 33% of the 2020 intern class represented a racial minority.•	Representation of minorities in our 2020 engineering intern class improved by 7% from 2017, with the largest increase seen among Black interns. •	Representation of minorities in our 2020 business intern class has increased 59% since 2017, with the largest increase seen among Hispanic interns. •	Valero has invested more than $7.25 million since 2016 in support of minority student groups and engineering schools, including a 
$1 million gift to BYU’s Women in Engineering Program.TALENT DEVELOPMENT FOCUSES ON CONNECTING TEAMS, ADVANCING EXPERTISEIn our journey to operational excellence, training is fundamental to building understanding in our people. Cultural values, company strategy and industry challenges are explored alongside technical, professional and leadership skills. Valero is committed to enhancing employee and company performance through key strategies:A strong learning culture allowed us to attract and retain a talented workforce in 2020, driving individual and team growth despite external challenges. As our demographics continue to change, our training and development programs have evolved, accelerating delivery to meet new workforce demands.Nearly all existing training programs went virtual in a matter of days, from industry hot topics and technical skill-building to forums for frontline leadership and interns. Trainers traded classrooms for computer monitors and helped leaders connect over video conferencing platforms. More than 649,000 hours of training were delivered to employees in subjects ranging from engineering and technical excellence, and safety and equipment maintenance to ethics, leadership, professional communication and performance in 2020. 1DRIVE CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT2FOSTER A CULTURE 
OF LEARNING3PROVIDE HIGH-QUALITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMSContinuous training is fundamental to communicating our cultural values and company strategy, as well as advancing hiring goals.INNOVATION
IN TRAINING:
Benicia Refinery Supports Basic Operator Training from a Distance As the pandemic began to trigger shutdowns across the country in spring 2020, Valero’s Benicia Refinery technical training team had a choice to make. A new class of operator trainees was scheduled to begin a 12-week training course on April 6, but doing so in person was not an option. Neither was canceling the course.“We decided to make the call on April 1. Being in person just wasn’t feasible … but we also didn’t feel it was right to walk away. So, we told them training would continue. It would just look different for a while,” said Aaron Cruz, Senior Technical Trainer. A “pre-Basic Operator Training” experience kept trainees employed and prepared. Through the use of iPads and virtual class support, trainers in Benicia were able to keep focus on Valero’s safety culture and expectations, alongside professional skill-building, before they set foot in the plant for hands-on training.By the time students arrived at the plant in Week 6, under more stabilized CDC protocols, bonds had already formed. “It was like a family,” said Riz Lucas, Senior Technical Trainer. “They were part of us by then, part of Team Valero.”Operator Trainee Tom Peale recalls Valero following through on promises and easing fears at an uncertain time. “We felt protected every step of the way,” Peale said. “For them to pay us to be here was a blessing. That alone cemented what kind of company we were working for.” Thanks to team resilience and ingenuity, the Basic Operator Training class completed training. Today, this class supports the refinery’s critical infrastructure operations. “The term I like to use is, you’ve got to have play-making ability. That is exactly what Valero did – they played to Heisman level last year. What they did for us was amazing.”- Tom Peale, Operator TraineeFrom left to right: Gary Simmons, Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer; Cheryl Thomas, Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer; Joe Gorder, Chairman of the Board and CEO; Lane Riggs, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jason Fraser, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.