COMMUNITY56We will be a good neighbor by sharing our success with the communities where we live and work through volunteerism, charitable giving and the economic support of being a good employer.Valero looks for opportunities to collaborate with local officials, community and nonprofit leaders and fence-line residents to improve the quality of life and help build stronger communities. We work diligently to engage with stakeholders at all levels to understand local interests and needs, and partner with communities to address social, environmental and economic matters through meaningful involvement. Through multiple million-dollar investments, we focused on:•	Improving access to vocational skills training and creating job opportunities for economically disadvantaged communities. •	Supporting the transformation of green spaces to create a hub for community revitalization and a gathering place for families to enjoy the outdoors. •	Funding the construction of a new food distribution center in neighborhoods where food insecurity is prevalent. Also, our employees selflessly volunteered thousands of hours to support schools, food banks, nursing homes, biodiversity projects, mentoring students and building community gardens, among other programs.Valero volunteers from our Wilmington refinery help with community beautification. Advancing Social Equity and Inclusion to 
Build Stronger Communities - TogetherValero was the first major energy company to adopt a formal 
Environmental Justice Policy. We believe social equity and inclusion are integral parts of a healthy community, which is why we collaborate with stakeholders to understand social, economic and environmental factors of importance to each community.  Urban Beautification Houston, TexasValero’s Houston Refinery is located in Houston’s East End, neighboring the Manchester community. In 2021, Valero, along with our neighbors and the City of Houston, proudly supported the renovation of Hartman Park. Manchester families have a new gathering place and a beautiful playground to spend quality time with their children. Neighborhood Education Support Wilmington, CaliforniaValero has worked with ESP Education and Leadership Institute in supporting its “BOSS” program. The mission of this initiative is to prepare young student-athletes, primarily of color, through year-round programming that includes academic coaching, mentoring, real-world experiences and opportunities for advocacy. In 2021, through the Valero Benefit for Children, ESP received $50,000 to help continue its mission of empowering youth to become future leaders. 

Houston, TexasValero employees in Houston hold an annual Back to School Bash for children in the Manchester neighborhood, equipping students with backpacks filled with school supplies. More than 1,500 backpacks have been distributed in the last 6 years.Memphis, TennesseeValero has been a long-standing supporter of Knowledge Quest, which offers a variety of programs designed to help strengthen families. This agency is located about four miles away from the refinery and directly impacts some of Memphis’ most impoverished areas. Through its Extended Learning Academy, Knowledge Quest offers free after school care for nearly 300 children. In 2010, to support the nutritional needs of the South Memphis community, Knowledge Quest created The Green Leaf Learning Farm. Years later, it now operates as a 1.5 acre urban microfarm that produces USDA certified organic produce. Last year, Valero volunteers helped clean the grounds and prepare the soil for planting. Knowledge Quest also received $100,000, their largest donation from Valero’s Benefit for Children, to help promote student Ag-Education. Port Arthur, TexasSince 2000, Valero has partnered with Port Arthur Industry Group (PAIG) to provide college scholarships to Port Arthur residents interested in STEM-related careers. St. Charles, Louisiana In an ongoing effort to reduce poverty, provide workforce training and facilitate upward mobility, Valero committed $1 million to United Way’s Building Renovation Fund for a new state-of-the-art River Parishes Community College campus in St. Charles, Louisiana. The new campus provides residents with a local technical and vocational school where students can attain an Associate Degree in Process Technology or Instrumentation. Prior to this new campus, students in St. Charles Parish had to travel up to 20 miles away to attend this type of program.Community Nutritional Initiatives Corpus Christi, Texas In 2021, the Valero Energy Foundation provided $1.5 million to the Coastal Bend Food Bank in Corpus Christi, Texas, to support the construction of a new 108,000 square foot distribution center to service an 11-county area. The new center is currently under construction with a targeted opening date in the summer of 2023.Valero’s Environmental Justice PolicyValero strives to operate as a good neighbor and looks for opportunities to work with local officials and directly with fence-line neighbors to improve the quality of life for its neighbors and communities. Valero aims to treat its fence-line neighbors fairly, regardless of race, color, national origin, culture or income. We work to ensure our neighbors have an opportunity to understand our proposed activities and to provide them with meaningful opportunity to have their concerns heard, with the goal of providing them with greater comfort in our operations.New playground at Hartman Park in Houston, Texas“Valero has proven to be an A+ community partner. To step up immediately after we made the announcement on the 50/50 Park Initiative, I classify them as an outstanding corporate citizen, and the investment they made is now benefiting these kids and sending a very important message to our city.” - Sylvester Turner, 
Houston Mayor“At Valero, we’re driven to make a difference in our community. We’re grateful for the opportunity to join Mayor Turner and the other partners to create a lasting difference in the lives of our neighbors and provide families a fun, safe and attractive park.”- Lon Brenner, 
Vice President and General Manager, Valero Houston Refinery58We aim to address needs with meaningful investments, engagement and outreach strategies. “I’ve never seen a corporation that does what Valero does, which is intentionally prioritize support based on the footprint of your plant. We’ve worked with Valero for nearly 20 years and they’ve set the standard on what a corporate neighbor is and should be.”- Marlon Foster, CEO, Knowledge Quest“PAIG was a life-changing opportunity for me. As a young man from Port Arthur, I wasn’t sure how I would find my place in such a large and competitive industry. PAIG provided the tools that helped me differentiate myself and land a job at Valero. The scholarship I received helped financially, but my internship through PAIG made a huge difference professionally. The internship gave me a unique insight into the career path I chose, and applicable experiences that translated into my work at Valero.” - Joshua Daniels, Operator, Valero Port Arthur Refinery60“Valero is a community partner that demonstrates commitment to our Parish, time and time again. Through their generous community investments and employment opportunities, the gift to the community college will drive economic growth in the St. Charles Parish for many years to come.” - Matthew Jewell, President, St. Charles Parish“I could not imagine having to run a nonprofit without companies like Valero. There is just no way we could do it. They are vital to our survival.” - Bea Hanson, Executive Director, Coastal Bend Food Bank Community Investment Impact2021 HighlightsIn 2021, Valero and the Valero Energy Foundation generated more than 
$62 million for charities through employee and company donations, corporate philanthropy, fundraising and volunteerism. More than 616 nonprofit organizations were supported through Valero’s diverse and inclusive community strategy.$62 MILLION+Total Generated for Charities$3 MILLIONEmployee Giving and Global Employee Volunteerism$16 MILLIONCorporate Investments in the U.S., U.K., Canada, Mexico and Peru$17 MILLIONSupport of United Way across the U.S.$27 MILLIONValero Energy Foundation Investments 
(Including proceeds from the Valero Texas Open and Benefit for Children)Addressing Our Communities’ Greatest NeedsHungerThe COVID-19 pandemic illuminated the importance of food access for families around the world. Over the past five years, Valero provided nearly $7 million to assist food banks and pantries serving children, adults and senior citizens.In Dumas, Texas, Valero’s McKee Refinery has supported Snack Pak 4 Kids since 2014 with volunteers and more than $200,000 to ensure students have meals on the weekends, during school holidays and over summer break.Education and Workforce DevelopmentEvery child deserves access to the resources and technology that engage them fully and maximize their learning experience. Valero partners with local public school districts and foundations, charter schools, colleges, universities and trade schools to ensure all students have access to the tools and support systems needed to pursue their dreams.Benicia, California – The Valero Energy Foundation provided $500,000 to the Vacaville Boys & Girls Club to help with the construction of a new 8,000 square foot building to serve the children in the community. The new building will include classrooms, a new kitchen and a celebration center. Port Arthur, Texas – The Valero Energy Foundation provided $100,000 to Port Arthur ISD to fund the Empowering Students and Teachers in the STEM program, a four-part initiative where teachers are provided the materials necessary to ensure students are thriving in these subjects.Wilmington, California – Valero provided $125,000 to the Cabrillo Marine Aquarium to support its STEM education programming. The aquarium is free to all attendees and open year-round. Montreal, Canada – For the fourth consecutive year, Valero was one of the major sponsors for the Défi Kayak Desgagnés, a three-day kayaking challenge that raised more than $333,000 for Jeunes musiciens du monde (Young Musicians of the World). This organization teaches music to at-risk youth to promote social belonging and self-esteem, motivating them to pursue their dreams.Women and MinoritiesValero seeks out opportunities to partner with organizations focused on advancing women and minorities. Corpus Christi, Texas – The Valero Energy Foundation provided $200,000 to New Life Refuge Ministries, which works to provide shelter and treatment for victims of sex traffickingSan Antonio, Texas – Valero contributed $70,000 to support Girl Scouts of Southwest Texas’ Girl Genius tutoring program, which provides female students from underfunded schools a safe environment to receive academic tutoring, homework assistance, physical activity and meals, all at no cost. With a majority of Hispanic students, the more than 55 participants achieved positive academic and behavioral outcomes, including improvement in discipline, satisfactory or exemplary behavior and reduction of failing classes. Community Health and Well-BeingWe are committed to investing in organizations that ensure our community’s most vulnerable populations have equal access to health care services. Some of our major gifts included:Corpus Christi, Texas – Over the past six years, Valero and the Valero Energy Foundation have provided around $1.5 million to Driscoll Children’s Hospital in South Texas, which provides pediatric care for 31-counties.In 2021, Valero’s support helped the Hospital raise $81,000 to purchase “Transportle Preemie Pods” to keep tiny patients secured during transport. San Antonio, Texas – Valero generously supports healthcare in San Antonio. In 2021, Valero donated $5.8 million to various healthcare causes, including the University Health System Foundation, a Mobile Mammography Unit and an Alzheimer’s Unit at the UT Health Science Center.Welcome, Minnesota – Our employee, Kelley Becker, from our Welcome, Minnesota, ethanol plant reached a blood donation milestone in 2021. Over his lifetime, he has participated in over 167 blood donation sessions. Valero began sponsoring the Welcome community blood drive in 2016. Prior to Valero’s sponsorship, there was no community blood drive in the Welcome area. Valero promotes blood donation efforts across all our sites. In 2021, Valero employees donated 1,044 units of blood, saving an estimated 3,132 lives. Valero works to address key issues across the communities where we live and work by partnering with agencies focused on driving social change and enriching lives.Our CEO, Joe Gorder, pictured here with kids enjoying the ultra-accessible Morgan’s Wonderland Camp in San Antonio, Texas.1“One of the things I’m so impressed about Valero is that they recognize that they are part of the communities. They are known for being a great community partner…I get told thank you from moms who go to bed at night knowing their babies will have enough to eat because of work that you do in partnership with us.” - Claire Babineaux-Fontenot, Chief Executive Officer, Feeding America2In Houston, Texas, Valero partners with YES Prep, which works to provide children equitable access to an exceptional public school education that equips them to achieve their educational goals and fulfill their potential, changing their lives forever. For the class of 2022, more than 98 percent of graduates have been accepted to a four-year college.43“A donation of this magnitude changes lives. Helping these survivors changes not just the trajectory of their lives, but the lives of those around them. Valero’s generosity to this program will influence and benefit generations to come.” - Minta Moore, Founder and Executive Director, New Life Refuge MinistriesIn San Antonio, Texas, since 2006, Valero and the Valero Energy Foundation have provided nearly $1.4 million to AVANCE to further its mission of creating pathways to economic mobility for predominantly Latino families.“Thanks so much to Valero for the consistent and continuous support of our programs – through grant funding, facility usage, board support and of course the encouragement we get from your fantastic staff!” - Susan S. Thompson, Executive Director, AVANCESan Antonio, Texas – The ultra-accessible Morgan’s Wonderland Camp, where people of all ages and abilities can play and experience camp together, was completed in 2020 thanks to a $15 million grant from Valero.VolunteerismFrom building homes, sorting food, planting trees, taking part in fun STEM activities at schools and picking up litter from roadways and beaches, our employees have a passion for helping build better communities and generously sharing their time and talents. Valero Volunteer CouncilsEach of our sites has a Valero Volunteer Council that organizes employee volunteer activities throughout the year. Over the past five years, our employees around the globe volunteered more than 600,000 hours of service.Our employees 
currently serve on 
more than 
320+ nonprofit/civic boards 
around the world that address a wide variety of needs to help strengthen communities.In Wilmington, California, Valero volunteers completed two giant murals as part of a beautification project at a neighboring school, Hawaiian Avenue Elementary. One of the murals spanned four classrooms and the other covered two stories. Sharefest is a nonprofit organization in California with a mission to empower underserved youth to transform their future and become leaders of collaborative community change.“Valero is an amazing partner who always does a phenomenal job beautifying our local schools. We know this project infused life into the school and will bring a smile to many kiddos’ faces.” - Chad Mayer, Executive Director, SharefestSt. Charles, Louisiana – Valero volunteers worked with their neighbors in a community-wide clean up event. Engineering interns in Memphis, Tennessee, work with students as part of the refinery’s partner.ship with Knowledge Quest.Interns in Three Rivers, Texas, work on STEM activities with children at the Boys & Girls Club.Corpus Christi, Texas – Valero volunteers have taken part in the Texas General Land Offices’ Adopt-A-Beach efforts collecting trash on area beaches. Texas City, Texas – As part of Earth Day activities, Valero volunteers helped build raised garden beds.Callao, Peru – Working together with community leaders, neighbors and the municipality, Valero volunteers helped clean the local beach by collecting 750 tons of garbage.San Antonio, Texas – Valero volunteers partnered with the Lemonade Circle organization to provide an on-site volunteer project and learn about careers at Valero.Stephanie Hall, Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel at Valero speaks about her career path to more than 100 minority girls attending this event. Benicia, California – Valero volunteers helped the Loma Vista Farm with cleanup and maintenance activities. San Antonio, Texas – Valero volunteers added fun artwork at the Blessed Sacrament Children’s Academy in the west side of the city.Pembroke, U.K. – Twice a year, Valero volunteers help preserve the beauty of the Freshwater West Beach in Pembrokeshire by participating in beach cleanup events, picking up litter along the coastal site. Wilmington, California – Valero hosted its Surf for Charity event, which raised nearly $30,000 for veterans. Corpus Christi, Texas – Every year, the Coastal Bend Bays Foundation hosts an Earth Day-Bay Day celebration in Corpus Christi, TX. This family-friendly event with educational exhibits encourages community participation in local conservation and habitat protection activities. In 2021, Valero gave away 2,600 native plants to attendees of Earth Day-Bay Day. Montreal, Canada – Valero volunteers at the Montreal East Terminal built planter boxes to grow fruits and vegetables at the Montreal East Community Gardens. With Valero’s support, the community gardens tripled in size from 4,305 to 12,916 square feet, helping to provide more fresh produce to Life of Hope Action.Joe Gorder, our CEO, is joined by the 2022 VTO champion, J.J. Spaun, and children at the First Tee of San Antonio during the Valero Texas Open.More Than $200 Million in proceeds for U.S. charities.The Valero Texas Open celebrated its 100th year in 2022, the oldest tournament on the PGA TOUR to be played in the same city since inception. For the past 20 years, Valero has been the title sponsor, helping to elevate the tournament’s stature by becoming a leader in charitable fundraising events on the PGA TOUR. In 2022, in collaboration with our business and community partners, the Valero Texas Open, the Valero Benefit for Children and Champions fore Charity events generated a record $22 million in proceeds for hundreds of charities. This brings the total amount raised by Valero to $205 million since becoming the title sponsor since 2002. Net Proceeds Raised:2021
$16+
million

2022
$22+
millionValero Benefit for Children Distribution by the Numbers42%36%22%EducationValero is a strong supporter and advocate of education, and prioritizes learning and college preparation as an investment in our future. We support school-based programs that ensure students have the necessary tools and technology to succeed at all ages, including STEM education programs, mentoring, wraparound social services and after-school programs.HealthcareWe prioritized healthcare and mental health needs in our neighboring communities. Major gifts went to children’s hospitals, medical centers and service providers that offer specialized health care services and programs.Basic NeedsBasic human needs are essential to having a community that is able to thrive. We provide support for services such as food banks, shelters, emergency response, after-school meals and others.  Basic NeedsThree Rivers, Texas – More than $200,000 has been provided to the Live Oak County Boys & Girls Clubs in the last five years. “To have a partner like Valero makes a difference in these children’s lives as we are trying to meet their needs and provide a better path for a better future 
for them.” - John Corkill, Executive Director, 
Boys and Girls Club of Live Oak CountyHouston, Texas – $90,000 to Kids’ Meals to provide children with weekend and after-school meals. San Antonio, Texas – $50,000 for Haven for Hope to help the homeless population. Corpus Christi, Texas – $175,000 was provided to the Ronald McDonald House Charities of South Texas for families who stay at the House near the hospital as their children receive treatment. EducationPort Arthur, Texas – $100,000 to the Beaumont Children’s Museum to support hands-on learning about nature, science, art, construction and other S.T.E.A.M. concepts.Mount Vernon, Indiana – $20,000 awarded to Youth First, Inc., which partners with 107 schools across 13 Indiana counties to provide skilled social workers who can serve as mentors and prevention coaches for parents and teachers. Wilmington, California – $100,000 to EXP, the Opportunity Engine, which helps prepare students for future careers. The program pairs high school juniors and seniors with companies for summer internships. During the 2021-2022 school year, more than 6,300 high school students at 11 Southern California high schools participated in EXP programs. Benicia, California – 
$50,000 to Junior Achievement to provide students with educational lessons on financial capability, career readiness and business ownership.Memphis, Tennessee – $80,000 to the Soulsville Foundation, Inc. for “Soulsville’s Black History Month” featuring the Stax Music Academy (SMA). The SMA is an after-school and summer music institute for at-risk youth to enhance academic, cognitive, performance and leadership skills through music education, with a strong focus on the rich legacy of Stax Records. HealthcarePort Arthur, Texas – $180,000 to the Christus Health Foundation of Southeast Texas to support its Maternal and Child Unit at CHRISTUS Hospital – St. Elizabeth. This will allow for special equipment to be used in labor and delivery rooms.Ardmore, Oklahoma – $40,000 to the Lighthouse Behavioral Wellness Centers, an organization focused on treating mental illness. Funds provided in 2021 supported program counselors with the necessary technology to help children. San Antonio, Texas – $25,000 to the Brighton Center to provide developmental services and education for children with disabilities. Dumas, Texas – CareNet Pregnancy Resource Center received $50,000 for pre-natal care. The funds will also help provide free counseling services to support mental health for their clients.Our Employees are Champions of United Way Since 1980, Valero has contributed more than $236 million to 59 United Way affiliates in 26 states across America where Valero employees live and work.
Valero employees stepped up in 2021 with record contributions to our companywide campaign. These donations ensure that thousands of agencies supported by United Way have the funding needed to continue serving communities across the United States. More than 25% of Valero employees generously pledged 2% or more of their annual salary to United Way agencies.Our commitment to being a United Way partner also goes beyond direct employee pledging – we also lead volunteer projects in collaboration with United Way partners agencies and host special events and activities which generate additional fundraising dollars.Reel United! Valero Fishing Tournament in Port Arthur – Since 2018, employees at Valero’s Port Arthur Refinery have hosted the Reel United fishing tournament as a way to raise additional funds for the United Way of Mid & South Jefferson County. In its inaugural year, 95 boats participated, and in 2021, 260 boats. Over the last four years, the Reel United fishing tournament has raised more than $220,000.The positive impact of the tournament is due in great part to Valero’s passionate volunteer council, whose members commit hundreds of hours to plan and set up the tournament. Many supportive business partners, including Stronghold Companies, also drive the event’s success.BBQ Showdown in Ardmore, Oklahoma – This annual fundraising event brings members of the Ardmore community together to generate one of the largest donations of the year to benefit the United Way of South-Central Oklahoma. In 2021, there were 39 participating teams and over 60 sponsors of the event, raising a total of $220,431. The two-day event has become a southern Oklahoma tradition, bringing thousands to the area to enjoy some amazing BBQ while contributing to a great cause.“In a year of challenges, employee contributions provided hope to the children, families, seniors and individuals who rely on the United Way at critical times of need.” - John Locke, 
Valero’s Vice President and Treasurer and Chair of the 2021 Valero United Way Campaign. $17 MILLIONTOTAL VALERO UNITED WAY PLEDGE CAMPAIGN FOR 2021“We are honored to support the United Way of Mid & South Jefferson County. We are thankful Valero included us in this mission.” - Chad Edgar, 
Vice President of Sales & Marketing Eastern Region, Stronghold Companies“This is a signature event for us and wouldn’t be possible without the support of our generous business and community partners. The city of Ardmore, the United Way and our Valero volunteers spend numerous hours preparing for this fundraiser and have helped us grow it into the community event it is today. We look forward to next year!”  - Vic Rhodes, Vice President and General Manager, Valero Ardmore RefineryEmergency Response EffortsHurricane Recovery: Respond. Restore. Recover.Roaring onshore the Louisiana coastline in late August 2021, Hurricane Ida, impacted community members and employees from the Valero St. Charles and Meraux Refineries. Valero contributed $500,000 to agencies on the frontlines directly serving communities affected by Hurricane Ida. Valero’s contributions were divided among three agencies that serve the New Orleans and South Louisiana areas:•	$250,000 to the American Red Cross in support of relief needs, including shelter, cleaning supplies and other basic necessities to those displaced from their homes;•	$200,000 for the Convoy of Hope to help provide hygiene kits; and•	$50,000 to Second Harvest to help provide thousands of people with meals following the storm. Working together in the Parishes where our St. Charles and Meraux refineries are located, Valero helped feed employees, contractors, emergency responders, school personnel and residents with more than 5,400 meals and hundreds of cases of bottled water. Fuel cards were also distributed to first responders and Parish officials.Tornado ResponseA few months later, Valero and our employees helped communities struck by tornados in Louisiana and Oklahoma.Valero’s Ardmore Refinery team members supported debris clean up and allowed responders to stage recovery efforts from their personal homes and businesses. Valero also provided funds to the American Red Cross to further support cleanup efforts across Marshall, Love and Johnson counties. Valero also provided fuel cards for residents impacted by the tornado. In Louisiana, Valero provided funds to the Greater New Orleans Foundation to support tornado relief efforts in local parishes.“Thanks to you and the employees of Valero for the donation of water and food. We appreciate Valero thinking of our community in its time of need.” - Howard Luna, St. Bernard Parish Council Member, District C“A big thank you goes to Valero for their assistance in helping get supplies – ice, water, and food – to our residents. They didn’t hesitate to donate… Valero is a great community partner to our Parish.”- Wanda Alcon, St. Bernard Parish Council Member, District DMaking a Difference Around the WorldIn the communities where we operate, we are a major employer and strong economic contributor.Our direct and indirect financial support contributes to local businesses, education, municipality infrastructure and other economic development needs for the overall health and vitalities of communities we serve. Our employees and contractors make above-average wages and purchase from local vendors.~9,800DIRECT JOBS, BOLSTERING LOCAL ECONOMIES 
WITH PAYROLLS~10,000CONTRACTORS$198,219MEDIAN OF THE TOTAL ANNUAL COMPENSATION 
OF ALL EMPLOYEES FOR 2021, EXCLUDING OUR CEO*$1.8BILLIONSPENT IN 2021 ON MAINTENANCE AND GROWTH PROJECTS, BOOSTING CONSTRUCTION AND SERVICE JOBS*See 2022 Proxy Statement, page 86. See page 111 for notes regarding this page.Supporting the mission and vision of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History & Culture. 