We are committed to the sustainable use and management of natural resources. Our team works in a responsible manner, including reducing, reusing, recycling and repurposing practices to minimize waste. Multi-billion-dollar capital investments are made to maintain our responsible operations along with improvement in personnel safety, process safety and reliability, which support our environmental performance.Governance and Oversight by the 
Board of Directors The board of directors established a new standing committee, the Sustainability and Public Policy Committee, to further enhance the board’s oversight structure and efforts with respect to: •	ESG. •	Sustainability and climate-related risks and opportunities.•	Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) matters.•	Corporate responsibility and reputation management.•	Social, community and public policy initiatives. •	Political and lobbying activities. •	Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements for the operations of the company.The committee includes the chairs of each of the other board committees and the lead director of the board, which ensures ESG and public policy topics permeate all board discussions. These directors bring the appropriate mix of backgrounds, knowledge and skills needed to facilitate oversight of broad ranging and complex ESG risks and opportunities. Valero volunteers from our Memphis refinery plant trees at one of the many Earth Day events held across our company.2021
HighlightsOn track to achieve 63% global refinery Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction/displacement target by 2025.On track to achieve 100% global refinery Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction/displacement target by 2035.2021 was our best year for employee and process safety performance and one of the lowest numbers of environmental scorecard events.1 Production capacity of renewable diesel is expected to increase to 1,170  million gallons per year with the startup of another plant in Q4 2022.1 Performance measures include environmental scorecard incidents, including flaring, spills and wastewater incidents.Low-Carbon Fuels and ProjectsWe continue to lead our industry through innovation and unmatched execution. We have invested more than $4.65 billion in our low-carbon fuels businesses and expect to invest approximately $500 million to complete the construction of another renewable diesel plant adjacent to our refinery in Port Arthur, Texas. More than 70% of our 2021 growth capital was allocated to low-carbon projects. Our low-carbon projects compete with refining projects for growth capital and have met or exceeded our after-tax internal rate of return (IRR) threshold. Our low-carbon fuels help governments around the world meet their GHG emissions reduction targets as established in low-carbon fuel policies and stricter fuel efficiency standards, while also providing excellent financial returns to our stockholders. SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUELRENEWABLE DIESELETHANOLLOW-CARBON HYDROGENRENEWABLE PROPANERENEWABLE NAPHTHARENEWABLE ARCTIC DIESELFIBER CELLULOSIC ETHANOLCARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGECalifornia’s Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) is one of the programs designed to accomplish GHG emissions reductions by decreasing the carbon intensity (CI) of transportation fuels. Under this program, each fuel is assigned a CI value, which represents the life cycle GHG emissions associated with feedstock sourcing, including feedstock type, origin and transportation, fuel production and distribution, and the use of the fuel. CIs are determined using a California Air Resources Board (CARB)-developed GHG emissions model, and fuel pathway CIs are certified2 by CARB after producers submit operational data to demonstrate the life cycle GHG emissions. 2 The LCFS verification program, under CARB oversight, provides confidence and reliability in reported data. Verification services are performed by qualified and trained third-party verifiers.See page 111 for notes regarding this page and for non-GAAP disclosures.Renewable Diesel•	World’s second-largest producer - growing capacity to meet demand: current production of 700 million gallons of renewable diesel and 30 million gallons of renewable naphtha per year. New plant expected to startup in Q4 2022 adjacent to our refinery in Port Arthur, Texas, will increase capacity to 1.2 billion gallons of renewable diesel and 50 million gallons of renewable naphtha per year.•	Circular economy and second-generation fuel: primarily produced from used cooking oil, animal fats and inedible corn oil.•	Low-carbon fuel: life cycle GHG emissions up to 80% lower than traditional diesel. •	Drop-in fuel: 100% compatible with existing infrastructure and engines, from light- to heavy-duty long-haul vehicles.•	Margin advantage: our production maintains a margin advantage over peers, as it has the capacity to process 100% waste feedstocks.Renewable diesel offers up to80%3lower life cycle GHG emissions, compared with traditional diesel.Adjacent to our Port Arthur refinery in Texas, a new renewable diesel plant will bring new jobs, opportunities and low-carbon fuels.Appetites That Fuel Our Low-Carbon FuelsKeeping food waste out of landfills while delivering low-carbon intensity renewable diesel needed to keep our economy moving. Wendy’sTM, Chick-fil-ATM and WingStopTM are part of the 150,000 restaurants, supermarket chains, casinos and theme parks nationwide providing used cooking oil to our joint venture member for conversion into renewable diesel, much of which is processed at our plants. 3 Low-carbon fuel markets such as the LCFS in the State of California (where our product is sold) verify and certify the carbon intensity of renewable diesel for comparison against a petroleum-based benchmark. This verified comparison of carbon intensity sets the value of the product and allows us to calculate GHG emissions reductions when diesel is displaced by renewable diesel. Similar programs are in place or being deployed by other states in the U.S. as well as other governments, including Canada and Europe. EthanolOur ethanol business began in 2009 and includes 12 plants, located in the Mid-Continent region of the U.S., with a combined production capacity of 1.6 billion gallons per year. Our plants are dry mill facilities that process corn to produce ethanol and co-products, such as dry distillers grains (DDGs) and syrup for livestock feed and inedible corn oil. •	World’s second-largest producer: 1.6 billion gallons per year. •	Low-carbon fuel: high-octane renewable fuel that lowers life cycle GHG emissions by at least 30%, compared with gasoline.•	Large-scale carbon sequestration: with startup activities to begin in late 2024, we expect to reduce almost 3 million metric tons of CO2 per year and increase the value of this ethanol in low-carbon marketplaces. •	Cellulosic ethanol, a second generation fuel: enzymes that convert fiber into fuel, further reducing the CI to high 20s and increasing ethanol value in low-carbon marketplaces.•	Ethanol co-product - DDG: when blended with animal feed, DDG makes for a protein-rich meal, which can help strengthen the immune systems of cattle and other livestock.Ethanol
has at least 30%4
 lower life cycle GHG emissions, compared with petroleum gasoline.Our goal is to continue decreasing the carbon intensity of low-carbon transportation fuels to increase the value of the product and contribute to more GHG emissions reductions. To that end, we are looking for ways to decrease the emissions in the life cycle as well as to convert waste such as fiber into valuable fuels. "When you combine cellulosic ethanol and carbon sequestration, ethanol sold to low-carbon markets could offer much lower GHG emissions than EVs. The carbon intensity of such ethanol could be in the single digits."- Eric Honeyman, 
Vice President - Renewables Operations and Low Carbon Fuels4 The carbon intensity of our ethanol can be further reduced to single digits with carbon sequestration and fiber ethanol production.Life Cycle GHG Emissions of Renewable FuelsLife cycle GHG emissions of low-carbon fuels are expressed in carbon intensity and represent a cradle-to-grave analysis, including feedstock production and transportation, fuel production and distribution, and use of the finished fuel. Verification of low-carbon fuels and their carbon intensity is conducted by low-carbon fuels programs. In the case of the State of California, a methodology is in place to verify and certify carbon intensity for low-carbon fuels to compare them against a petroleum-based fuel benchmark. Fuels with lower CI scores compared with the benchmark generate greater numbers of LCFS credits and command higher market values compared with petroleum-based fuels. Similar programs are being deployed by other states in the U.S. as well as other governments, including Canada and certain countries in Europe.Large-Scale Carbon Capture and Storage5 to Further Reduce 
the Carbon Intensity of EthanolUnder DevelopmentCapturing and removing high-concentration CO2 streams produced in the fermentation process at eight of our ethanol plants have the potential to further reduce the carbon intensity of ethanol by more than 40% and make ethanol more valuable in low-carbon fuel markets. With startup activities expected to begin in late 2024, Valero’s goal is to be the anchor shipper, with eight of its ethanol plants connected to the 1,300-mile carbon capture pipeline across five U.S. Midwest states. Additionally, we are evaluating stand-alone carbon capture and sequestration projects for several of our other ethanol plants located near suitable geology. CO2 CAPTURESeparation of CO2 at 
our ethanol plantsCO2 TRANSPORTOnce separated, the CO2 is dehydrated and compressed, then transported via pipelinesCO2 STORAGECO2 is injected into an underground formation for safe, secure and permanent storage5 Working with BlackRock Global Energy & Power Infrastructure Fund III and Navigator Energy Services.FEEDSTOCK PRODUCTION
AND TRANSPORTATIONFUEL PRODUCTION 
AND DISTRIBUTIONUSE OF THE 
FINISHED FUELSEQUESTRATION SITEMINNESOTAMap is indicative only. Exact pipeline route subject to change.PROPOSED PIPELINESOUTH DAKOTAVALERO ETHANOL PLANTAURORAWELCOMELAKOTACHARLES CITYHARTLEYALBERT CITYFORT DODGEIOWAALBIONILLINOISNEBRASKAEnvironmental ManagementWe have well-developed management structures central to decision-making and risk management, including three programs that oversee our environmental management:1Our Commitment to Excellence Management System (CTEMS) is a proprietary systematic approach to planning, executing, checking, and acting to improve everyday work activities at many of our refineries and plants. CTEMS has 10 elements: leadership  accountability, protecting people and the environment, people and skills  development, operations reliability and mechanical integrity, technical excellence and knowledge management, change management, business competitiveness, stakeholder relationships, assurance and review, and continual improvement. Risks related to regulatory issues and physical threats to our refineries and plants are among those assessed as we implement CTEMS.Environmental Excellence and Risk Assessment (EERA) elevates the environmental audit and compliance functions to an environmental excellence vision. Its main goal is to assess the design and effectiveness of environmental performance regarding specific excellence objectives, and to facilitate continuous improvement across the company. EERA defines more than 100 expectations and involves a proprietary five-step process using due diligence on data and field assessments reviewed by a combination of external and internal subject matter experts. Our Fuels Regulatory Assurance Program provides operational safeguards, software, training, and protocols for uniformity across our refineries and plants to reinforce our compliance with applicable fuels regulations. Building on the success of this system, we are developing a proprietary Low-Carbon Assurance Program designed to provide tools and oversight to assure compliance with the increasingly complex array of low-carbon fuels programs. 23EERA ProcessOn-Site: Self-assessment is conducted by refinery leadership. Each refinery compares itself to rating criteria. Records: Third-party and in-house subject matter experts conduct an extensive deep-dive review of refinery environmental data and reports. Technology: Technical field assessment is conducted using industry standards and advanced technology to evaluate effectiveness in controlling emissions. Inspection: Results from the technology review and due-diligence process are used by a team of experts in a substantive on-site inspection and cultural assessment. Implementation: Final gap assessment report is produced by experts and leadership team with mitigation pathway and scoring improvement actions.24Our Approach to Environmental Management Responsibility: refinery staff dedicated to environmental excellence and risk mitigation.Risk Assessment: formal risk assessments documented, implemented and maintained at sites, including hazard identification, risk evaluation, analysis and mitigation.Compliance: assurance with legal requirements, communicating and monitoring changing regulations.Objectives and Continuous Improvement: progress on environmental management, including strategic planning, goals and objectives, is reviewed at least annually.Record Keeping: ensure documents are identified, managed and maintained. Training: ensure all employees are skilled, trained and competent to perform duties in an environmentally responsible manner.Monitoring and Communication: operations and activities measured and monitored, assessing the implementation and effectiveness of operational controls, and tracking and evaluating environmental performance.Audits and Assessments: internal and independent audits and verifications are conducted to identify the adequacy and effectiveness of environmental controls, regulatory compliance and excellence vision. More Than 1 Million Metric Tons of CO2 Captured Each YearIn 2013, our refinery in 
Port Arthur, Texas, became the first industrial site in the U.S. to sucessfully host a large-scale carbon capture project, and it remains the only U.S. refinery doing so, with more than 1 million tons captured each year. Two steam methane reformer units, owned by a provider that produces hydrogen from natural gas for the refinery, were retrofitted to capture the carbon dioxide generated from hydrogen production.1 MILLIONMETRIC TONS PER YEAR CAPTURED IS EQUIVALENT TO THE ANNUAL ENERGY CONSUMED BY MORE THAN125,000AMERICAN HOMES66 Source: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator.FLARE-GAS RECOVERY SYSTEMS RESULTED IN MORE THAN 96% FLARING-FREE OPERATIONS IN 2021 More than 79% of Valero’s large process flares are equipped with flare-gas recovery systems. These systems reduce flaring and air pollution, and recover fuel gases, which are used to fire heaters and boilers, reducing natural gas consumption.Reducing, Reusing, Recycling and RepurposingFor Valero, being the most efficient and reliable operator in a highly competitive industry means being a better environmental performer.Our operations are looking for ways to continue reducing emissions and waste, reusing energy and byproducts, recycling materials and repurposing wastes.SULFUR REMOVAL Sulfur obtained from the refinery process unit is removed for a variety of beneficial uses, including crop fertilizer, polymers and pharmaceuticals.MARINE VAPOR RECOVERY UNITSAt certain refineries, captured vapors generated when loading vessels with gasoline and other light products are routed back to the refinery for reprocessing.  FUEL FROM OIL WASTEOur unique refinery complexity allows for residual oils processing. Recovered usable oil and oily solids are reprocessed into high-value fuel and byproducts through refining processes, including “coker injection,” avoiding the generation and disposal of wastes. REPURPOSING OF MATERIAL RECOVERED FROM TANK CLEANINGRecovered material is inserted back into the refining process to create fuels and other products. Alternatively, the recovered material is also used to fuel third-party facilities, avoiding landfill waste.WASTEWATER 
MANAGEMENTProcess water and stormwater are managed at wastewater treatment plants. We use naturally occurring bacteria to digest oil and treat wastewater streams to purify the water before returning to the ecosystem.ENERGY EFFICIENCY INITIATIVESWe are focused on improving process monitoring and control systems to reduce energy consumption, which in turn reduces costs and carbon emissions.WATER RECYCLINGWith innovative approaches, we use each gallon of water more than 17 times prior to evaporation or return to the environment.RECYCLING EXHAUST GASES TO REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTIONInstalled at six of our refineries, expanders are designed to convert kinetic energy into electricity by reusing exhaust gases to spin turbines.HEAT TRANSFERHeat integration technology is used in our refineries to pair high temperature streams that require cooling with lower temperature streams that require heating to facilitate heat transfer and reduce energy consumption.Leveraging Technologies to Reduce EmissionsReal-time air readouts allow our refineries to protect the surrounding communities and take early response and mitigation actions even on small emissions sources.Furthering our commitment as a responsible operator and supplementing our existing monitoring programs, we are utilizing the Duvas DV3000, a real-time mobile air quality monitoring surveying system, for air quality screenings. The vehicle-mounted DV3000 is a gas analyzer that uses ultraviolet spectroscopy to identify and qualify up to 14 different gases, including benzene, SOx and NOx, at low part-per-billion levels. With an analyzer response time as short as one second, the DV3000 combines measurements with geographic mapping of gas concentrations, and enables rapid detection and source location of air emissions during monitoring. DV3000 Mobile Air Quality MonitorAnemometer: measures wind direction to locate the source of emissionsIn 2021, Valero undertook air quality screenings in our fence-line communities and verified all levels were under the applicable environmental standards. Air samplerValero refineries use optical gas imaging technology to detect VOC emissions and for routine equipment leak monitoring. Watch a video about the DV3000 mobile air quality monitor.Hazardous Waste Management ProgramWe focus on reducing the generation of solid wastes across all of our operations. Reducing at the source, reusing, recycling, and repurposing of materials are key components of our waste reduction program, which also includes regular waste reviews, risk assessments, waste stream prioritization and training.Waste Management InnovationSince 2010, we have increased our waste disposal efficiency by using the Roberoller tankers. This eliminated the need of approximately 5,700 over-the-road truck trips, disposal of 11,400 HDPE liners, and avoided the use of more than 2.2 million gallons of water that would have been used to wash out containers.Spill PreventionValero is focused on reducing spills from its manufacturing and processing facilities, pipelines and vessels. We protect our people and the environment through operational excellence and technology, always with the goal of zero spills.The environmental scorecard incidents metric of the all-employee bonus is weighted to the intensity of environmental incidents with greater impact for more significant events, including the severity of spills.2021 Highlights1.9 MILLIONGALLONS OF WASTE REPURPOSED AS FUEL AT THIRD-PARTY FACILITIES, DISPLACING THE EQUIVALENT OF MORE THAN 6,500 TONS OF COAL AND PREVENTING MORE THAN 27,000 TONS OF CO296%OF ALL REFINERY EXEMPTED AND HAZARDOUS WASTES WERE RECYCLED755%OF ALL HAZARDOUS WASTE WAS RECYCLED, INCLUDING 26.5 MILLION POUNDS OF CATALYST7 Refers to exempted hazardous waste as per regulatory classifications and per footnote EM-RM-150a.1 on page 109.Biodiversity and ConservationAt Valero, we promote biodiversity and protect wildlife habitat through a number of proactive measures. We engage in diverse ecological projects with local, state and federal regulatory agencies, as well as with neighbors and indigenous communities. Our campaigns promoting wildlife conservation and biodiversity enhancement include working together with local and regional organizations that provide a variety of environmental services ranging from the protection of endangered species, restoration of wetlands and reforestation to rehabilitation of former industrial sites, and promoting environmental awareness through educational programs.Monarch butterfly way station planting near our Ardmore refinery.Valero became a member of the Wildlife Habitat Council, a nonprofit dedicated to enhancing and restoring wildlife habitat by promoting investments in sustainability efforts, increasing employee involvement and engagement with communities.Consideration of Biodiversity ImpactsValero’s growth capital projects can require thorough evaluation of potential biodiversity impacts as part of their planning, approval and implementation phases.When necessary in the pre-construction or planning phase of projects, Valero’s environmental team works closely with the engineering and commercial departments to perform environmental due diligence.The following natural and cultural resource considerations are part of the evaluation process:•	Locations of surface waters and wetlands. •	Threatened and endangered species habitats. •	Previously recorded archaeological sites, historic structures and areas of tribal interest or significance. •	Existing developed areas versus undeveloped greenfield sites. •	Public lands, including parks, nature preserves and wildlife conservation areas. •	Federal Emergency Management Agency floodplains. •	Surface water intakes.We perform environmental field studies to verify and delineate natural resources within proposed project areas. For significant greenfield projects where alternative locations are considered, the most viable locations are surveyed. This data further drives project decisions on avoidance of sensitive features and habitats and informs site selection.In the construction phase, for site preparation and other related soil-disturbing activities, we initiate stormwater management controls to reduce impacts to lakes, rivers, streams and other surface waters. These controls consist of a variety of best management practices integrated into our Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans, which comply with federal, state and local stormwater pollution control requirements, including planning, temporary and permanent sedimentation and erosion control measures, stream- and wetland-crossing procedures, inspections and general good housekeeping practices. During major construction and where warranted, we also provide applicable training on threatened and endangered species awareness and identification, stop-work protocols and reporting. To protect ecosystems from unintended releases of materials, we implement comprehensive pollution prevention and incident response programs.123Our staff biologist tracks ecological and conservation projects conducted by our plants and Valero volunteers and also identifies new projects, including collaborations with environmental nonprofits and nature-based carbon capture opportunities.Biodiversity and Habitat ConservationValero volunteers from our Ardmore refinery collaborated with a local Boy Scout troop to create a monarch butterfly way station, a habitat with more than 400 plants, to provide the milkweed, nectar and ideal environment for monarchs to thrive. This project received an Honorable Mention from the Frank Condon Award for Environmental Excellence.Valero volunteers at our operations in Peru created a green area for the Márquez community that will contribute to the growth and protection of the environment while providing outdoor spaces for families.For more than 20 years, Valero has partnered with the 
San Antonio Botanical Garden to promote the enjoyment of a diverse array of plant life and flowers. In 2021, Valero supported the Terrarium Tours program. This STEM-focused, nature-based educational program allowed nearly 5,000 
San Antonio students from economically disadvantaged schools to explore diverse plant ecosystems, receive environmental education and create their own terrarium to 
take home. Our Meraux refinery created a 15,000-square-foot wildflower sanctuary in a nearby property to provide a habitat consisting of native-flowering plants for a variety of pollinators, including honey bees, butterflies and hummingbirds. Valero works with indigenous tribes to preserve sites with biodiverse, historical, cultural and spiritual significance. As part of the Diamond Pipeline project in Oklahoma and Arkansas, 23 indigenous communities were contacted to participate in the permitting process. After a consultation process, tribes identified locations of significant interest along the 440-mile route.Wildlife and Plant ProtectionValero’s Welcome ethanol plant in Minnesota partnered with its local soil and water district and with the nonprofit Pheasants Forever to create a 3-acre wildlife habitat to attract multiple pollinators. Valero committed $500,000 to the Texas State Aquarium for a new Center for Wildlife Rescue, slated to open in 2022, with a new Valero veterinary lab where visitors can witness the rehabilitation of rescued animals, such as shorebirds, marine mammals and sea turtles.As part of the construction of a cogeneration unit at our refinery in Pembroke, an abandoned residence was converted into habitat for local populations of bats relocated because of the new unit. The bat house has attracted a number of bats.Valero supports Blooming with Birdie's Caterpillar Condos for Classrooms program, which provides an environmentally focused educational experience 
to more than 60 San Antonio public schools and libraries with an emphasis on economically disadvantaged schools. Teachers are provided with mesh cages, milkweed plants and two caterpillars, accompanied by virtual lessons that align with the metamorphosis of the monarch butterfly. Wetlands RestorationThe St. Charles refinery continued its longstanding partnership with the Pontchartrain Conservancy with a $1 million contribution to fund a five-year plan for wetland restoration. Over the course of this project, 28,000 tree saplings will be planted across 140 acres. Once mature, these trees are estimated to capture more than 100,000 tons of carbon dioxide annually. Valero volunteers are invited to participate in planting events twice a year, and approximately 400 local students will engage in coastal restoration efforts.The Benicia refinery captures clean sediment dredged from its dock area to raise the elevation of nearby subsided wetlands, which helps protect and recover wildlife and plant species. Dredging is performed annually to maintain adequate depth for ships to berth safely at the docks. Valero began donating clean dredged sediment to the Montezuma Wetlands Restoration Project in 2012 and as of January 2022, it has reclaimed 550 acres of wetland from the tides, and early signs of species colonization, including fish, birds and elk, have been recorded.VALERO HAS DONATED NEARLY 260,000CUBIC YARDS OF CLEAN DREDGED MATERIAL, EQUIVALENT TO ROUGHLY 12.5 MILLION50-POUND BAGS OF SAND.Land and Shoreline RestorationValero volunteers from the Houston and Texas City refineries partnered with the Galveston Bay Foundation to plant 140 trees and restore part of an oyster reef, which help to reestablish coastal habitat, reduce erosion, prevent hurricane storm surges and aid in carbon capture. The Kemah reforestation tree-planting event was held on the foundation’s new property, which will eventually house its future headquarters, the Gessner Center. The center will act as a gathering place for the community and will educate adults and students about Galveston Bay, conservation and the importance of water.Approximately 7,500 pounds of oyster shells were collected from local restaurants, bundled into sacks, and placed along the Galveston Bay shoreline to restore 38 feet of oyster reef. Oyster reefs help filter water and prevent storm surges, provide a nursery for oyster larvae and other marine animals, and allow sediment to settle along the shoreline, helping to restore coastal habitats.Valero donated $1 million to the Memphis River Parks Partnership in support of planting more than 1,000 trees at the newly redesigned Tom Lee Park, which will provide a community gathering place with educational, fitness and recreational opportunities. Valero volunteers from our Memphis refinery assisted with the tree planting.Valero volunteers at our Pembroke refinery planted over 500 trees on company-owned land in an effort to “re-wild,” or restore and protect, natural areas through the planting of native broadleaf woodland, which also promotes nature-based carbon storage. Valero is collaborating with BCarbon, a nonprofit, nature-based carbon dioxide capture and storage registry, to develop a 1,000 mile living shoreline project in the Texas Gulf Coast, consisting of oyster reef breakwater systems. These natural bank barriers help to restore shoreline habitat, reduce erosion, improve water quality and enhance fish and wildlife habitat. Protecting the wetlands of the Texas coast also protects endangered and threatened species such as the whooping crane.Environmental Metricsa Million metric tons CO2e. Independently verified. Scope 1 is defined as the direct GHG emissions from our 15 refineries. Scope 2 (market-based) is the indirect GHG emissions from purchased electricity and purchased steam used by our 15 refineries. For more information, see note EM-RM-110a.1 regarding GHG emissions on page 109.  b Metric Tons. c Million m3. d Count of oil spill events to land or water of more than one barrel.See page 111 for details on data verification.GLOBAL REFINERYa 2018 2019 2020 2021 GHG Emissions Scope 1a 25.4 24.8 23.0 23.7 GHG Emissions Scope 2a 5.0 4.7 4.5 4.9 NOxb 9,000 8,700 7,900 8,400 SOxb 7,700 8,800 7,600 7,600 PM10b 2,300 2,200 2,200 2,600 VOCsb 10,300 7,700 7,500 7,500 Fresh Water withdrawnc 165.8 164.1 164.6 175.0 Oil spilled to land (>1 bbl)d 25 14 21 28 Oil spilled to water (>1 bbl)d 4 3 4 0 In the chart to the right, you will find a calculation of Valero’s Net Scope 3 Intensity in kg CO2e per barrel. Scope 3 is largely a duplication of what is already being reported by others in our supply chain in their Scope 1 or 2. We recognize that Scope 3 is riddled with duplication in substance and methodology and offers limited value; however, some of our stakeholders have asked for us to provide disclosure for purposes of evaluating relative peer performance in terms of GHG emissions from the use of the products we manufacture. As expected from the leader in refining efficiency and in the production of low-carbon fuels, the estimated GHG emissions from the use of our collective products are industry leading lows.2021 Global Refinery
Net Scope 3 IntensityPeer Range375kg CO2e/bbl266 kg CO2e/bbl250See page 111 for details on Valero's Net Scope 3 Intensity and the peer group.Energy EfficiencyMany of our refineries use power from renewable sources either from local power grids or from our own projects. We produce some of our own power, from wind or from recycling gases (such as steam and exhaust) within our refining processes. Roughly 24% of our total refinery energy consumption originates from renewable sources.Hydropower: More than 99% of the electricity used at our Quebec City refinery comes from renewable sources – mainly hydropower, with small portions from wind, biomass and biogas. Wind generation: Adjacent to our McKee refinery in the Texas Panhandle, our windfarm was completed in 2009 at an investment of more than $80 million, and includes 33 wind turbines with 50 megawatts of electricity capacity, which roughly matches the electricity requirements of the refinery.Cogeneration Plants: Fueled by natural gas, our cogeneration plants reduce our reliance on local power grids, which are often less environmentally friendly and more costly. Cogeneration is a highly efficient way of producing electricity and thermal energy or steam, with the steam recycled back into the refining process for other uses. Valero has cogeneration systems at refineries in Wilmington, Benicia, Port Arthur and Pembroke. Expanders: At six of our refineries, we have installed “expanders” on processing units that generate power from exhaust gases. We have the world’s largest expander at our Corpus Christi West refinery. In all, our expanders are designed with the capacity to annually displace more than 600,000 tons of carbon dioxide that otherwise would be generated by conventional power plants.Heat Transfer: Our refineries utilize heat integration technology to improve energy efficiency and reduce energy-related operating expenses. Heat exchangers enable the transfer of thermal energy from high temperature process streams to lower temperature streams, decreasing natural gas or refinery fuel gas needs for heating and lowering utilities requirements for cooling. Fuel Cell: At our Benicia refinery in California, a low-carbon and grid-independent five-megawatt fuel cell is under development, which is expected to power the asphalt and wastewater plants. A fuel cell is a very efficient and reliable way of producing power, while allowing the grid to be used by other community energy needs. Cogeneration unit at our Wilmington refinery, which reduces our reliance on the local power grid and increases energy efficiency.COMBINED, OUR COGENERATION SYSTEMS AND EXPANDERS ARE DESIGNED TO OFFSET330 MEGAWATTSOF ELECTRICITY ANNUALLY, ENOUGH TO POWER THE HOMES OF A CITY THE SIZE OF SAN FRANCISCO**U.S. Census Bureau. Population estimates as of July 1, 2019Water ManagementWater management is a critical component of our business, and we continue to work with stakeholders to improve our performance, while also reducing consumption, by:•	Taking a risk-based approach to water management and integrating water strategy and water security into our long-term planning and business processes. •	Engaging with local governments, industry associations, suppliers and regulatory agencies to develop innovative solutions in water management and conservation in water-stressed areas. •	Assessing and managing regional water risks through updated sustainability assessments. •	Complying with water management laws and regulations. •	Protecting existing water resources through sound water management policies.•	Recycling and reusing water to improve efficiency. Most of our water consumption takes place in our refining operations. Based on the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Water Risk Atlas tool, Aqueduct, we determined that only two of our 15 refineries are located in regions with high baseline water stress. Reduction and mitigation initiatives include the evaluation of reused municipal wastewater for cooling tower purposes and acquisition of secured water rights.Water scarcity can be a risk not only to communities but to the refining process. Water is needed for cooling and also in the form of steam for heating. In addition, water plays an important role in processing feedstocks. Our water-risk-based approach is integrated into our operational and long-term planning to mitigate and reduce water risks. We have taken several steps we believe are necessary to secure our operations in conditions of water scarcity. •	At our Wilmington refinery, we have secured treated municipal wastewater to supplement our cooling tower makeup water. Upon project completion, we expect to save up to 420 million gallons of potable water per year. That is roughly the annual amount consumed by 9,000 U.S. households.9•	Our Three Rivers refinery sends treated wastewater for irrigation use for hay production. •	Our Corpus Christi refineries pay into a broad industry fund that provides water-supply security and supports research and plans for the construction of a desalination facility to serve industrial users. •	Our Texas City refinery has an option agreement to purchase treated wastewater from the city and is evaluating a project to reuse this water source in the refinery.•	Our Welcome ethanol plant was one of the industry’s first operators to achieve “zero discharge” of wastewater by recovering and recycling process water and stormwater. •	Process water and stormwater are treated as necessary before discharging or reusing. Our wastewater treatment plants are generally comparable to those operated by most cities.9 Source: Water Footprint Calculator.At Valero, we take innovative approaches and leverage advanced technology to minimize use and eliminate waste. In 2021, we recycled more than 17 times the amount of fresh water we withdrew to support our refinery operations, primarily through the recirculation of water in high-efficiency cooling towers.