We view our stakeholders as
partners to whom we seek to
deliver operational excellence, disciplined management of
capital and long-term value
on a foundation of strong
governance and ethical
standards.Our strong corporate governance policies and practices provide accountability and responsiveness to our stockholders, employees, neighbors and other stakeholders.We focus on regulatory compliance and the highest ethical standards. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics guides employees and directors of Valero to fair, ethical, honest and lawful conduct.Valero was named one of the Winning “W” Companies whose boards are comprised of 20% or more women, by 2020 Women on Boards, a nonprofit organization that focuses on raising the number of women board directors. Women comprise 30% of Valero’s board.board of directorsstrong corporate
governanceFrom health and safety to confidentiality to proper use of company assets, accurate financial reporting and anti-bribery, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and other policies aim to ensure that we maintain the highest standards of ethical behavior.We also provide employees, directors, business partners and others an anonymous reporting hotline for suspected violations.Governance policies and committee charters, including the Code; Corporate Governance Guidelines; Policy on Political Contributions, Lobbying and Trade Associations; and other policies and guidelines can be found at our website, www.investorvalero.com/corporate-governance.demonstrated strategy for value creationValero focuses on delivering for its stockholders in three key areas:•	Proven history of operations excellence and higher profitability by focusing on safe, reliable, environmentally responsible operations•	Disciplined capital allocation with solid free cash flow and returns to stockholders without compromise on asset maintenance•	Growth strategy focused on a steady pipeline of high-return projectsValero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  519 of 10members are independent193864fully independent committeesyears
average
tenureaverage
age3•	Audit Committee•	Compensation Committee•	Nominating/Governance 
& Public Policy CommitteeCommittees
include:women members52Valero directors included on the ‘Women Inc.’ list include (left to right) H. Paulett Eberhart, Kimberly S. Greene and Deborah Platt Majoras.Three Valero Directors Honored by ‘Women Inc.’ MagazineThree directors of Valero’s board – H. Paulett Eberhart, Kimberly S. Greene and Deborah Platt Majoras – were included on a list of “2018 Most Influential Corporate Board Directors” by “Women Inc.” magazine.The magazine describes the recognition as a “prestigious listing of female trailblazers active on the boards of global-leading corporations and organizations.” It notes that 19% of Fortune 1000 companies comprising the Gender Diversity Index, compiled by 2020 Women on Boards, have 30% or more women board representation, as Valero does.Eberhart is chair and CEO of HMS Ventures, a privately held business involved with technology services and the acquisition and management of real estate. She is a Certified Public Accountant and serves on other public-company boards. Eberhart is a member of the Valero board’s Audit Committee, and has brought expertise in business leadership, information technology, management, accounting, finance and public-company governance.Greene is Chairman, CEO and President of Southern Company Gas, a subsidiary of Southern Company. She serves on the Valero board’s Nominating/Governance and Public Policy Committee, and has contributed energy-business, finance and regulatory business management expertise.Majoras is Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of The Procter & Gamble Co., and was Chair of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission from 2004 until 2008. She is Chair of the Valero board’s Nominating/Governance and Public Policy Committee, and has led the oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. Majoras has brought to our board public-company leadership and governance, as well as government, regulatory and legal expertise.“The ‘2018 Most Influential Corporate Board Directors’ provides an incredible assembly of women who have forged tremendous careers and contribute their experience to the boards of leading public companies and major organizations,” the magazine concludes.“The ‘2018 Most Influential Corporate Board Directors’ provides an incredible assembly of women who have forged tremendous careers and contribute their experience to the boards of leading public companies and major organizations.”Valero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  53stakeholder engagementOur stakeholder engagement efforts involve the following:•	Ongoing engagement with stakeholders•	Consistent dialogue providing management and the board of directors with insights on issues and initiatives that are priorities for our stakeholders•	An engagement 
process following a “review, plan, 
engage, and analyze and respond” cycle to build relationships and create meaningful engagement•	Adjusting our engagement process based on stakeholder needs and business strategy‘Institutional Investor’ Names Valero ‘Most Honored’; Gorder Top CEOFor a third year in a row, Institutional Investor magazine, one of the most authoritative publications in the investment world, recognized Valero among its “Most Honored Companies,” based on results of its “2019 All-America Executive Team” rankings from votes of nearly 3,400 portfolio managers and equity analysts.In the integrated oil sector, Joe Gorder, Valero Chairman, President and CEO, earned Best CEO; John Locke, Valero Vice President-Investor Relations, Policy, Strategy and Communications, earned Best IR Professional; and Valero tied for the Best Investor Relations Program.“A solid management team, clear strategy, superior operational and financial execution and credible messaging all are measures used by Wall Street professionals to describe Valero,” Locke said. “We are very proud to receive this recognition for a third straight year.”Institutional Investor asked portfolio managers and equity analysts within securities and research firms to name the best CEOs, CFOs and investor relations programs and professionals at the U.S. companies they cover. Each voted for up to four companies across several performance measures.Companies that earn two or more top-three appearances in the categories are recognized as a “Most Honored Company.” Out of 1,984 companies in America receiving votes, only 188 were distinguished as “Most Honored.” Valero was one of only four companies in the integrated oil sector to make the “most honored” list.PlanReviewEngageAnalyze
&
Respond2019 All-America Executive Team54Valero’s board of directors has designed the executive compensation program to retain and provide incentive to executives, and reward them for superior company performance. The program aligns the interests of executives and stockholders, manages risk, balances compensation over short- and long-term periods, and is designed with consideration of best practices in executive compensation.Valero’s performance and capital allocation decisions have resulted in Valero’s Total Stockholder Return (TSR) outperforming the Dow Jones Index, the S&P 500 Index and the XLE Index over the past five years.alignment of executive pay to company performanceOutperformed the Dow Jones Index, the S&P 500 Index and all Companies in the XLE(1) Index on TSR Since 2014Total Stockholder Return(2)VLO Dow Jones IndexS&P 500 Index XLE	XLE Constituents Min+104%+66%+57%-8%-63%VLO US EQUITYXLE Range(1)XLE includes refining peers PSX, MPC, HFC, and 26 other energy companies such as XOM, CVX, SLB, COP, EOG, OXY, and KMI.
(2)TSR from December 31, 2014, through June 28, 2019. TSR includes stock price appreciation and dividends paid.History of energy sector and broader market outperformance under current leadership team. “Valero makes products that are indispensable to everyday life –
even beyond transportation fuels.”The Social Benefit of 
Valero’s ProductsValero’s products reliably and affordably get you where you need to go, but what if you were told they also help feed and clothe the world and clean its water? Or build, power and paint its buildings, scrub and sanitize its surfaces, or provide other everyday items from oral anesthetics to sunscreen?Beyond fuels like gasoline, diesel and jet fuel that enable millions of people to get to work or school each day, or the asphalt they drive on, Valero’s products from the refining process are building blocks for many other necessities.“A lot of people don’t stop to think about how all the products we make help make their lives easier, or even better,” said Eric Fisher, Vice President-Wholesale Marketing and International Commercial Operations. “Valero makes products that are indispensable to everyday life – even beyond transportation fuels.”For example, sulfur from the Texas City and Houston refineries is used in ammonium sulfate fertilizer essential for the growth and development of food and fiber crops. And Valero provides sulfur to a manufacturer of sodium thiosulfate, which removes nitrates from drinking water. The product helped the city of Houston avoid a boil-water alert during Hurricane Harvey.Other Valero products go for recreational uses. While the majority of the company’s petroleum coke produces aluminum, steel, electric power and cement, some helps make sunscreen. “Who would have thought we’d be in a product we’d take to the beach?” said Fisher.Some of the many necessities
possible with Valero’s products:building products•	Aluminum•	Cement•	Paints and coatings•	Plywood•	Roofing products•	Steelutilities•	Power generation•	Water treatmenthousehold, recreational•	Glasses•	Laundry
detergents•	Nylon•	Oral anesthetic/
analgesic•	Pharmaceutical 
products•	Polyester fiberscommercial•	Adhesives•	Fertilizer•	Fuel additives•	Industrial rubber•	Lubricants•	Printing inksIconIconIcon•	Rubber running tracks•	Soaps and other cleaning agents•	Sunscreen•	Water bottlesIcon•	Pulp and paper•	Racing fuel•	Sealants•	Specialty greases•	TiresSummary of Awards•	Moved up two spots to No. 6 in the Platts Top 250 Global Energy Company Rankings in 2018 for outstanding global financial and industry performance•	Named each time since 2013 to list of America’s 50 most community-minded major companies – The Civic 50, an initiative of Points of Light – and the leading company in the energy sector on the list•	Highest-ranked independent refiner on the Forbes magazine list of America’s Best Large Employers•	Institutional Investor magazine’s 2019 
All-America Executive Team awards in the integrated oil sector, including Best CEO overall to Joe Gorder; Best IR Professional to John Locke; and Best Investor Relations Program to Valero (tie), qualifying Valero for the 
“Most Honored Companies” list•	Most refineries (10) approved as Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Star Sites, OSHA’s highest plant safety designation, after voluntarily submitting to and passing rigorous safety audits•	Three asphalt terminals approved for VPP Stars•	Five safety awards in 2018 from American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM), including Elite Silver Safety Awards to the McKee refinery and the Wilmington asphalt plant•	Pelican Award, the highest honor of the Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association, to Valero’s Louisiana operations (including the St. Charles and Meraux refineries, St. James Asphalt Terminal, Parkway Pipeline and Diamond Green Diesel joint venture), recognizing the company’s outstanding achievement in the industry and contributions to the state•	Award for Exemplary Service in Civil Security to the Jean Gaulin refinery in Quebec from Public Safety Canada, recognizing exceptional achievements in emergency management•	Corporate Partner of the Year to the Wilmington refinery from the Long Beach Rescue Mission, which serves emergency needs of the hungry and homeless, recognizing Valero’s assistance with food-serving and donations•	The Prix Distinction du Groupe entreprises en santé (Distinction Award of the Healthy Enterprise Group) in the working environment category to Valero’s Canadian operations, from nonprofit Groupe entreprises en santé, for innovative programs in health, well-being and productivity in the workplace•	An Arts & Business Cymru Award, in the Arts, Business and Young People category, to the Pembroke refinery for its work with the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama, providing for training for financially disadvantaged young people and preparation for higher education•	Governor’s Award for Meritorious Achievement to the Welcome ethanol plant, from the Minnesota Safety Council, for safety performance in 2018 that included incidence rates lower than the industry average•	Division leader in 2018 Corporate Cup from nonprofit San Antonio Sports to Valero’s 
San Antonio operations, for performance in charitable and athletic events•	Eleven American Inhouse Design Awards across 11 categories to the Valero Design Services team, from Graphic Design USA magazine, recognizing outstanding work by in-house graphic designers and departments#fueledby
Fuel isn’t just about driving, but the drive to achieve something great. We’re proud to provide products for many of the things you use every day to create, innovate, experience and dream. Because, at Valero, we believe that the thing that you are truly fueled by comes from within. What are you fueled by? Check out https://fueledby.com.#FUELEDBY ATHLETICS#FUELEDBY NEW GROWTH#FUELEDBY PASSION#FUELEDBY LEARNING#FUELEDBY ADVENTUREValero Energy CorporationCorporate HeadquartersP.O. Box 696000
San Antonio, TX 78269www.valero.comPrinted in the U.S.A.