Innovation for a Low-carbon FutureAt Valero, we believe that liquid fuels are the affordable solution to reduce transportation GHG emissions in a reliable manner. Fuels are essential to drive progress and create long-term value for our stockholders while helping to realize a more viable trajectory for the global economy.Over the last decade Valero has become a leading manufacturer of low-carbon fuels, which offer lower GHG emissions. In the next decade, we will focus on bringing creative and innovative approaches to the decarbonization of transportation fuels. The following technological advances are examples of innovation that we are developing or evaluating:Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF)The IEA Net Zero 20501 scenario forecasts that 50% of fuels used in aviation will be low emissions by 2040. Therefore, net zero goals in the aviation industry are dependent upon large-scale projects. At Valero, we believe that low-carbon aviation fuels will be part of the energy mix. We are evaluating the engineering capability to add SAF production to the new renewable diesel facility in Port Arthur.Alcohol-to-jet (ATJ) is another low-carbon pathway to produce SAF. In this process alcohols are converted to SAF using catalytic steps similar to those used in existing petroleum refining processes. Our large network of low-carbon ethanol plants and our leading refining expertise provide us with an advantage in the potential development of this product. Large-scale SAF production could also be a demand driver for low-carbon hydrogen, carbon capture and renewable power projects.1 International Energy Agency (2021), Net Zero by 2050. A Roadmap for the Global Energy Sector, IEA, Paris. CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGERENEWABLE PROPANESUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUELRENEWABLE DIESELTAILPIPE CO2 
ON BOARD CAPTUREFIBER CELLULOSIC ETHANOLRENEWABLE NAPHTHALOW-CARBON HYDROGENRenewable NaphthaRenewable naphtha is already produced at Valero’s renewable diesel plants. Renewable naphtha is a gasoline blending component that lowers the carbon intensity of gasoline. It can also be used in plastic production, resulting in low-carbon plastics. Renewable naphtha can also be used in the production of low-carbon hydrogen.  Low-carbon
HydrogenHydrogen is important in refinery operations as it is used to lower the sulfur content of fuels. Low-carbon hydrogen has become a critical technology in the various decarbonization pathways. In part due to the acceleration of renewable energy and carbon sequestration, studies around scalability of this technology show how quickly the industry is moving to reach parity with current technologies. Valero intends to use low-carbon hydrogen, produced from renewable propane, to reduce the amount of fossil-fuel-derived hydrogen used in renewable diesel production. At our Corpus Christi refinery, we use renewable natural gas from municipal solid waste to produce low-carbon transportation fuels. We expect to process nearly 1 trillion BTUs of renewable natural gas in 2022 and nearly 3.7 trillion BTUs of renewable natural gas in 2023. These resulting low-carbon transportation fuels are valued at a premium and are exported to Europe to meet certain GHG emission reduction goals.Preliminary
testing of this system passively removes more than 90% 
of the expected 
CO2 emissions
of the vehicle. Tailpipe CO2 Onboard Capture SystemValero is supporting Southwest Research Institute (SwRI) in the development of a solid filtration membrane to remove CO2 from the exhaust tailpipe of internal combustion engine vehicles. The objective of this revolutionary technology is to reduce CO2 emissions in the atmosphere with an affordable solution that lowers life cycle GHG emissions.In concept, applying this technology to vehicles running on low-carbon fuels would result in net negative life cycle carbon emissions, exceeding the performance of any competing technology (including EVs and hydrogen fuel cells).  Electric Vehicles (EVs) Are Not Zero-Emission Vehicles.•	An EV is not “zero emissions,” as the electricity that powers an EV is often generated by fossil fuels. •	The infrastructure build-out necessary to support an increase in EVs will be costly, time-intensive and fossil-fuel dependent, thus emitting a large amount of CO2 itself. •	According to the IEA’s The Role of Critical Minerals in Clean Energy Transitions, minerals necessary for EVs are not produced domestically, and the world does not have the mineral resource capacity to meet the demand increase of technologies such as EV batteries.1•	According to the IEA's Global EV Outlook 2022, significant EV battery metal price increases reflect concerns of tightening supply and availability. It also features China's dominance on the entire global downstream EV battery supply chain.2Renewable Diesel: an affordable solution to reduce GHG emissions right now.•	Life cycle analysis captures feedstock production and transportation, fuel production and distribution and use of the finished product.•	Renewable diesel is a drop-in fuel, which means that it is 100% compatible with existing infrastructure and diesel engines, from light- to heavy-duty long-haul vehicles. This makes renewable diesel a viable solution to immediately reduce transportation GHG emissions without requiring a costly, time-intensive and CO2-emitting infrastructure build-out as with EVs. •	Our renewable diesel is typically made of waste materials and manufactured in jurisdictions with strict environmental, labor and governance regulations. •	Unlike with EVs, owners of vehicles running on renewable diesel do not incur a high up-front cost to replace their current vehicles, nor the expenses related to charging and other new infrastructure needed to support an EV. •	As detailed on the right, a vehicle running on renewable diesel can significantly cut life cycle GHG emissions compared with an EV.EVs' embedded emissions do not include metal mining, processing and battery manufacturing. Life cycle GHG emissions analysis represents the emissions from cradle to grave.Embedded CO2 Emissions(zero miles traveled)Tons CO212102x higher emissions from mining raw materials to fabrication to delivery8642Battery Electric
VehicleCar Fueled by
Gasoline•	Before EVs leave the showroom, EVs have already generated 12 tons of CO2 emissions vs. 6 tons of CO2 emissions from cars fueled by gasolineSignificant Issues and Emissions From EV Life CycleMANUFACTURINGEVSPOWER
GENERATIONMINING/EXTRACTIONCOBALT & RARE
EARTH PROCESSING1 International Energy Agency (2021), The Role of Critical Minerals in Clean Energy Transitions, IEA, Paris. All rights reserved.
2 International Energy Agency (2022), Global EV Outlook 2022, IEA, Paris. All rights reserved.See page 111 for notes regarding this page.Tomorrow is built on actions taken today. We are committed to meeting the growing demand 
for reliable, affordable 
low-carbon fuels.  USE OF THE 
FINISHED FUELFUEL PRODUCTION 
AND DISTRIBUTIONFEEDSTOCK PRODUCTION
AND TRANSPORTATIONU.S. Heavy-Duty Long-Haul Vehicle Life Cycle Emissions2021 Southwest Research Institute StudyTons CO257% fewer emissions
than an EV after 1,000,000 miles traveled 1,6001,4001,2001,0008006004002000500,000 Miles
Traveled1,000,000 Miles
TraveledEmbedded Emissions 
(zero miles traveled)Battery Electric VehicleDiesel Engine with Renewable Diesel