GHG Emissions Targets2025 TARGET:To reduce and offset 63% of our global refining Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2025 through board-approved projects.On track to achieve 63% refining GHG emissions reduction/offset target by 2025.Left to
Reduce and Offset59% Reduction and Offsets Achieved in 202063% 
TargetIn addition to absolute refining GHG emissions reductions, our production of renewable diesel and ethanol offers meaningful reductions in life cycle GHG emissions, compared with traditional diesel and gasoline. Blending and credits with respect to renewable fuels also provide a displacement of GHG emissions. Many state, provincial and national governments across the world have implemented, or are considering implementing, low-carbon fuel policies and stricter fuel efficiency standards to help reach GHG emissions reduction targets. This has helped, and should continue to help, drive the demand for both renewable diesel and ethanol. Valero believes that the ability to supply these renewable fuels could play an important role in helping to achieve such GHG emissions reduction targets.We have invested more than $3 billion* to date in our renewable fuels, and we have allocated almost 
$2 billion over the next three years expanding our board-approved renewable projects. *Our investment to date in our renewable fuels businesses consists of $1.4 billion in capital investments to build our renewable diesel business and $1.7 billion to build our ethanol business. Capital investments in renewable diesel represent 100 percent of the capital investments made by DGD (joint venture in which Valero is a 50/50 joint venture partner).See pages 106, 107 and 109 for notes regarding this page.2035 TARGET:We plan to further reduce and offset 100% of our global refining Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2035 through board-approved projects and carbon capture and storage projects under development.NEW32.32.44.211.1Million Metric Tons CO2e100%
Reduction10.93.72035 VLO Refining GHG Emissions after Reductions
& Offsets
(Scope 
1 & 2)2035 GHG Emissions Offset by Carbon Capture and Storage2035 GHG Emissions Offset by VLO Ethanol ProductionAbsolute Emissions Reduction through Efficiencies
(Scope
1 & 2)2035 GHG Emissions Offset by VLO Renewable Diesel Production2035 GHG Emissions Offset by Global Blending of and Credits from Renewable FuelsVLO Refining
GHG
Emissions
in 2011
(Scope
1 & 2)
Independently verifiedTARGETING TO REDUCE AND OFFSET 100% OF GLOBAL REFINING SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS BY 2035See page 106 and 107 for notes regarding this page.Valero employees celebrating Earth Day at San Antonio’s 
Phil Hardberger Park ENVIRONMENTWe are committed stewards of the environment.  Our team works to protect the natural environment by operating in a responsible manner, including utilizing recycling and reusing practices, minimizing waste and investing in our assets. In fact, multi-billion-dollar capital investments to maintain our responsible operations along with continuous improvement in personnel safety, process safety and reliability have driven down our environmental events to record lows.GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT BY THE BOARD The board of directors has oversight responsibility of climate-related risks and opportunities. The Nominating/Governance and Public Policy Committee assists the board in the oversight of risks relating to health, safety and environmental performance, as well as climate-related risks and opportunities. The committee also assists the board in oversight of ESG disclosures. Managed by a senior executive who reports directly to our CEO and with direct reporting opportunities to the committee, our environmental team is responsible for environmental strategy, risk assessment and implementation.2020 HIGHLIGHTSON TRACK TO ACHIEVE63%GLOBAL REFINING SCOPE 1 AND 2
GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION/OFFSET
TARGET BY 2025. RENEWABLE DIESEL HAS UP TO 80%LOWER LIFE CYCLE GHG EMISSIONS, COMPARED WITH TRADITIONAL DIESEL100%GLOBAL REFINING SCOPE 1 AND 2
GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION/OFFSET TARGET BY 2035RENEWABLE DIESEL •	Growing demand and capacity: current production capacity of 290 million gallons, expanding to 690 million gallons per year in 2021 and 1.2 billion gallons per year by 2023 •	Circular economy: produced from used cooking oil, recycled animal fats and inedible corn oil •	Low-carbon fuel: life cycle GHG emissions up to 80% lower than traditional diesel•	Drop-in fuel: 100% compatible with existing infrastructure and engines, from light- to heavy-duty long-haul vehicles2020BEST YEAR FOR SAFETY PERFORMANCE AND THE LOWEST NUMBER OF ENVIRONMENTAL SCORECARD EVENTS**Performance measures include environmental scorecard incidents, including flaring, spills and wastewater incidents.By planting trees in wetlands and restoring swamps in front of levees, employees at the Valero St. Charles Refinery help protect the area from hurricanes. See pages 106 and 107 for notes regarding this page.LOW-CARBON FUELS AND PROJECTSOur innovation has made us a leader in our industry for an energy transition.We have invested more than $3 billion to date in our renewable fuels businesses. And we have allocated almost $2 billion over the next three years to complete the expansion of our renewable diesel plant located next to our St. Charles refinery in Louisiana, and to build another renewable diesel plant adjacent to our refinery in Port Arthur, Texas.Last year, more than 40% of growth capital expenditures were invested in low-carbon projects. In 2021, we are allocating more than 50% of growth capital expenditures to low-carbon projects.Many state, provincial and national governments across the world have implemented, or are considering implementing, low-carbon fuel policies and stricter fuel-efficiency standards to help reach GHG emissions reduction targets. These policies drive the demand for both renewable diesel and ethanol.The growth of our renewable fuels business not only contributes to substantially lower carbon emissions, but also provides a good financial return to our stockholders. RENEWABLE DIESEL Our renewable diesel uses a combination of used cooking oil, recycled animal fats and inedible corn oil to produce low-carbon-intensity renewable diesel that reduces life cycle GHG emissions up to 80%, compared with traditional diesel. In a joint venture that started operations in 2013 at a plant adjacent to our St. Charles refinery, we have capacity to produce 290 million gallons per year with a planned expansion to 690 million gallons by late 2021. Another renewable diesel plant was approved by our board to start operations in the second half of 2023, adjacent to our refinery in Port Arthur, Texas. This will result in a combined annual capacity of about 1.2 billion gallons of renewable diesel.ETHANOLA clean-burning, high-octane renewable fuel, ethanol has 30% lower life cycle GHG emissions, compared with gasoline. Our total ethanol production capacity is 
1.7 billion gallons per year.In order to continue reducing the carbon intensity of ethanol, we have implemented additional processes using enzymes to further break down the corn kernel to produce cellulosic ethanol. This type of ethanol offers lower life cycle GHG emissions compared with corn ethanol.LIFE CYCLE GHG EMISSIONS OF RENEWABLE FUELSLife cycle GHG emissions of low-carbon fuels are expressed in carbon intensity and represent a cradle-to-grave analysis, including feedstock production and transportation, fuel production and distribution, and use of finished fuel. When compared with traditional fuels, life cycle GHG emissions of low-carbon fuels include all the traditional scope emissions.ETHANOL HAS AT LEAST30%LOWER LIFE CYCLE GHG EMISSIONS, COMPARED WITH PETROLEUM GASOLINEETHANOL•	World’s second largest producer: 1.7 billion gallons per year •	Low-carbon fuel: high-octane renewable fuel that lowers life cycle GHG emissions 30%, compared with gasoline•	Innovation to further reduce carbon intensity: large-scale carbon capture and storage pipeline project underway, expected to be operational in 2024 with the capability to capture more than 
3 million metric tons of CO2 emissions per yearSee page 109 for notes regarding this page.FEEDSTOCK PRODUCTION
& TRANSPORTATIONFUEL PRODUCTION 
AND DISTRIBUTIONUSE OF THE 
FINISHED FUELLARGE-SCALE CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE TO FURTHER REDUCE THE CARBON INTENSITY OF ETHANOLThis project1 involves capturing high-concentration CO2 streams produced in the fermentation process at our ethanol plants.The removal of CO2 from our ethanol plants has the potential to further reduce the carbon intensity of this low-carbon fuel by more than 40% and significantly contribute to our GHG emissions reduction/offset target. Valero is expected to be the anchor shipper with eight of its ethanol plants connected to the 1,200-mile carbon capture pipeline across five Midwest states.Separation of CO2 at 
our ethanol plantsOnce separated, the CO2 is dehydrated and compressed, 
then transported via pipelinesCO2 is injected into an underground formation 
for safe, secure and 
permanent storage1Working with BlackRock Global Energy & Power Infrastructure Fund III and Navigator Energy Services expected to be completed. Map is indicative only. Exact pipeline route subject to change following the conclusion of open season.ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENTRobust Operational and Environmental Management Systems following three programs:COMMITMENT TO EXCELLENCE MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM (CTEMS)CTEMS provides the policies and procedures used to achieve operations excellence and to manage our business in a safe, reliable and environmentally responsible manner. A proprietary systematic approach unlike third-party management systems, CTEMS focuses on results and not exclusively on planning and documentation. CTEMS adheres to a plan>do>check>act model to achieve excellence in nine critical elements, driving safe and reliable operations, and minimizing impacts on communities and the environment.FUELS 
COMPLIANCE Our Fuels Compliance program provides operational safeguards, software, auditing, training and protocols for uniformity across our 
labs to reinforce our compliance with all fuels regulations across the globe. 
Our fuels compliance efforts also include evaluating low-carbon-intensity value generation opportunities by finding carbon intensity optimization investments and strategies. Together with the innovation team, fuels compliance supports projects that directly benefit carbon intensity, including:•	Energy conservation efforts in 
the feedstock supply chain•	Sustainable corn crop practices•	Plant and terminal certifications and audits•	Clean-fuel regulatory compliance•	Cellulosic ethanol production•	Innovation projects, including renewable naphtha, sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), renewable hydrogen and carbon capture opportunities12OUR APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Responsibility: refinery staff dedicated to environmental excellence and risk mitigationRisk Assessment: formal risk assessments documented, implemented and maintained at sites, including hazard identification, risk evaluation, analysis and mitigationCompliance: assurance with legal requirements, communicating and monitoring changing regulations Objectives and Continuous Improvement: progress on environmental management, including strategic planning, goals and objectives, is reviewed at least annuallyRecord Keeping: ensure documents identified, managed and maintained Training: ensure all employees necessarily skilled, trained and competent to perform duties in an environmentally responsible mannerMonitoring and Communication: operations and activities measured and monitored, assessing the implementation and effectiveness of operational controls, and tracking and evaluating environmental performanceAudits and Assessments: internal and independent audits and verifications conducted to identify the adequacy and effectiveness of environmental controls, regulatory compliance and excellence vision EERA PROCESS:ENVIRONMENTAL EXCELLENCE 
AND RISK ASSESSMENT (EERA)Created in 2020, EERA elevated the environmental audit and compliance functions to an environmental excellence vision. Its main goal is to assess the design and effectiveness of environmental management systems under specific excellence objectives, and to return an assessment per site to enable continuous improvement across the company. EERA defines more than 100 expectations and involves a five-step process using a combination of external assessors and internal subject matter experts.When combined with CTEMS, EERA is much more relevant and effective for our complex refining business than generalized management systems such as ISO 14001.In 2020, EERA was implemented completely at several of our refineries. By focusing on results in the field, and not exclusively on regulatory compliance, EERA promoted our excellence vision in 2020.ON-SITE: Self-assessment is conducted by refinery leadership. Each refinery compares itself to rating criteria. 
PAPER: Third-party and in-house subject matter experts conduct an extenisve deep-dive review of refinery environmental data and reports in a due-diligence-style process. 
TECHNOLOGY: Technical field assessment is conducted using industry standards and advanced technology to evaluate effectiveness in controlling emissions. 
INSPECTION: Results from the technology review and due-diligence process are used by a team of experts in a substantive on-site inspection and cultural assessment. 
IMPLEMENTATION: Final gap assessment report is produced by experts and leadership team with mitigation pathway and scoring improvement actions.3At the Corpus Christi West refinery, leak detection and repair (LDAR) equipment is used to detect emissions.REDUCING, REUSING, RECYCLING AND REPURPOSINGFor Valero, being the most efficient and reliable operator in a highly competitive industry means being a better environmental performer.FLARE-GAS RECOVERY SYSTEMS RESULTED IN MORE THAN
97% FLARING-FREE OPERATIONS IN 2020  More than 79% of Valero’s large process flares are equipped with flare-gas recovery systems. These systems reduce flaring and recover fuel gases, which are used to fire heaters and boilers, reducing natural gas consumption.SULFUR REMOVAL Sulfur obtained from the refinery process unit is removed for a variety of beneficial uses, including crop fertilizer.MARINE VAPOR RECOVERY UNITSAt certain refineries, captured vapors generated when loading ships with gasoline and other light products are routed back into the refinery’s gasoline pool. FUEL FROM OIL WASTERecovered usable oil and oily solids are reprocessed into high-value fuel and byproducts through refining processes, including “coker injection,” avoiding the generation and disposal of wastes. ENERGY EFFICIENCY INITIATIVESWe are focused on improving process 
monitoring and control systems to reduce 
energy consumption.Our operations are always looking for ways to continue reducing emissions and waste, reusing energy and byproducts, recycling materials and repurposing wastes.RECYCLING OF MATERIAL RECOVERED FROM TANK CLEANINGRecovered material is inserted back into the refining process to create fuels and other products.  Alternatively, the recovered material is also used to fuel third-party facilities, avoiding landfill waste.WASTEWATER MANAGEMENTProcess water and stormwater are managed at our wastewater treatment plants. We use specialized bacteria to naturally digest oil and treat wastewater streams to purify the water before returning to the ecosystem.WATER RECYCLINGWith innovative approaches, we use each gallon of water more than 18.5 times prior to evaporation or return to the environment.REUSING EXHAUST GASES TO REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTIONInstalled at six of our refineries, expanders are designed to convert kinetic energy into electricity by reusing exhaust gases to spin turbines.Valero volunteers from the Houston and Texas City refineries planted 140 trees during a habitat restoration event for the Galveston Bay Foundation in Kemah, Texas.CARBON CAPTURE SINCE 2013MORE THAN 1 MILLION TONS
OF CO2 EACH YEARCarbon capture opportunities include capturing the carbon dioxide associated with hydrogen production at refineries. In 2013, our refinery in Port Arthur, Texas, became the first industrial site in the U.S. to host a large-scale carbon capture project, and it remains the only U.S. refinery doing so, with more than 1 million tons captured each year. Two steam methane reformer units, owned by a business partner that produces hydrogen from natural gas for the refinery, were retrofitted to capture the carbon dioxide generated from hydrogen production.HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMWe focus on reducing the generation of wastes across all media, including air, water and solid streams. Recycling, reusing and repurposing activities are essential components of our program. The program also includes regular waste reviews, risk assessments, waste stream prioritization and training. SPILL PREVENTIONValero is focused on reducing spills from its manufacturing and processing facilities, pipelines and vessels, and thoroughly investigates spills to reduce recurrence. We protect our people and the environment through operational excellence and technology, always with the goal of zero spills. 1 millionTONS PER YEAR CAPTURED
IS EQUIVALENT TO THE BENEFITS OF
PLANTING EACH YEAR16.5 million TREE SEEDLINGS 
GROWN FOR 10 YEARS**Source: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator2020 RESULTS2.5 million GALLONS OF WASTE REPURPOSED
AS FUEL AT THIRD-PARTY FACILITIES, DISPLACING THE EQUIVALENT OF MORE THAN 8,500 TONS OF COAL AND PREVENTING 35,800 TONS OF CARBON94%OF ALL REFINERY EXEMPTED
AND HAZARDOUS WASTES 
WERE RECYCLED* Wastewater treatment plant at Corpus Christi West refinery, where we use specialized bacteria that naturally digest oil and other components in our waste streams.48%OF ALL HAZARDOUS WASTE WAS RECYCLED, INCLUDING 
15.6 MILLION POUNDS OF CATALYST**Refers to exempted hazardous waste as per regulatory classifications and per footnote EM-RM-150a.1 on page 107.Galveston Bay Tree PlantingBIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATIONAt Valero, we promote biodiversity and protect wildlife habitat through a number of proactive measures.  We engage in diverse ecological projects with state and federal regulatory agencies, as well as with neighbors and indigenous communities. Our campaigns promoting wildlife conservation and biodiversity enhancement include working together with local and regional organizations that provide a variety of environmental services ranging from the protection of endangered species, restoration of wetlands and reforestation, to rehabilitation of former industrial sites, and promoting environmental awareness through educational programs.The following natural and cultural resource considerations are part of the evaluation process:Consideration of Biodiversity ImpactsValero’s growth capital projects often require thorough evaluation of potential biodiversity impacts as part of their planning, approval and implementation phases, particularly when greenfield sites are being considered, or at locations where existing assets may have sensitive natural or cultural considerations. In the pre-construction or planning phase of such capital projects, we perform environmental due-diligence as part of location selection. Once environmental reviews and virtual data gathering are performed, Valero’s environmental team works closely with the engineering and commercial departments to determine the best preliminary location for the project.•	Locations of surface waters and wetlands•	Threatened and endangered species habitats•	Previously recorded archaeological sites, historic structures and areas of tribal interest or significance•	Existing developed areas versus undeveloped greenfield sites•	Public lands, including parks, nature preserves and wildlife conservation areas•	Federal Emergency Management Agency floodplains•	Surface water intakesFor significant projects, alternative locations are considered. In these cases, we perform environmental field studies on the most viable locations to verify and delineate natural resources within proposed project areas. This data further drives project decisions on avoidance of sensitive features and habitats.In the construction phase, for site preparation and other related soil-disturbing activities, we initiate stormwater management controls to reduce impacts to lakes, rivers, streams and other surface waters. These controls consist of a variety of best management practices integrated into our Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans, which comply with federal, state and local stormwater pollution control requirements, including planning, temporary and permanent sedimentation and erosion control measures, stream- and wetland-crossing procedures, inspections and general good housekeeping practices. During major construction, we also provide applicable training on threatened and endangered species awareness and identification, stop-work protocols and reporting. To protect ecosystems from unintended releases of materials, we implement comprehensive pollution prevention and incident response programs. Pipeline Public Awareness ProgramWith more than 3,000 miles of active pipelines, Valero has programs in place to inform the public, emergency responders and other key stakeholders about the status of the pipelines, and offers resources to residents and businesses. We also provide training to emergency response personnel in the community. Because digging or other excavation, construction or farming activity can potentially damage a pipeline and have both safety and environmental impacts, Valero encourages the public to contact their state’s one-call center, from the “811: Call Before You Dig” resource on its website. Biodiversity and Habitat ConservationOur staff biologist identifies endangered species and critical habitat in the vicinity of our facilities, and documents ecological projects conducted by our plants and Valero volunteers.Valero sponsored the Texas Butterfly Ranch Caterpillar Condos for Classrooms program to teach second grade students the life cycle and migration patterns of monarch butterflies.For a pipeline replacement project between our Ardmore refinery and Wynnewood terminal in Oklahoma, Valero conducted surveys on the rare American burying beetle and provided critical data to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service on area populations of the beetle.American burying beetleWe also work with indigenous tribes to preserve sites with biodiverse, historical, cultural and spiritual significance. During the construction of the Diamond Pipeline in Oklahoma and Arkansas, 23 indigenous communities were contacted to participate in the permitting process. After a consultation process, more than 200 locations were identified to require tribal and archaeological surveying along the 440-mile route.Consultation process with indigenous communities as part of the Diamond Pipeline.Wildlife and Plant ProtectionOur Pembroke refinery in the United Kingdom creates and sustains habitat for wildlife and plants with a Biodiversity Action Plan on 500 acres it owns outside its fence line. This includes work with the Bumblebee Conservation Trust to create habitat for the rare shrill carder bee, at the site of a removed tank storage farm. Valero volunteers have cleared and planted wildflower meadow seed, and also have created safe nesting areas in earthen banks for shelduck waterfowl, secure from predators. Shrill carder beeShelduck waterfowlAt our Benicia refinery near the San Francisco Bay, Valero placed straw “wattles,” or interwoven natural material, over pipelines to allow small mammals, including the threatened salt marsh harvest mouse, passage over the pipes. The wattles serve as bridges and provide critical access for the mouse to the dense ground cover and adjoining grasslands it is dependent upon.Salt marsh harvest mousePeregrine falconValero’s Jefferson, Wisconsin, ethanol plant is creating habitat for peregrine falcons, on the state’s endangered list, to nest and reproduce. Parent falcons return each year to the plant, where volunteers have built a nest box and placed it high up in an old grain elevator stairway, with window access. In 2020, three chicks hatched and fledged successfully. The plant regularly has invited employees and their families to watch as a researcher bands the small chicks for tracking. Wetlands RestorationFor more than 10 years, the St. Charles refinery has worked closely with the Pontchartrain Conservancy. As part of wetlands and swamp restoration, together we have planted approximately 5,000 trees in front of levees to help protect the area from hurricanes. For more than 10 years, the St. Charles refinery has worked closely with the Pontchartrain Conservancy. As part of wetlands and swamp restoration, together we have planted 5,000 trees in front of levees to help protect the area from hurricanes. Valero Benicia RefineryAN AMOUNT
ROUGHLY
EQUAL TO134,000 CUBIC YARDS OF CLEAN
DREDGED MATERIAL6.4 million50-POUND BAGS 
OF SANDThe Benicia refinery captures clean sediment dredged from its dock area to raise the elevation of nearby subsided wetlands, which helps protect and recover wildlife and plant species. Over the past four years, Valero has contributed approximately 134,000 cubic yards of clean dredged material – an amount roughly equal to 6.4 million 50-pound bags of sand – for restoration at the Montezuma Wetlands Restoration Project. The effort not only protects habitat but also helps ensure safe dock operations, clearing sediment to allow ample underwater clearance for large ships.Our Aurora ethanol plant received the 2019 Brookings County Conservation District Tree Stewardship Award for its stewardship of natural resources, including planting 5,500 trees in South Dakota. Land Remediation, ManagementAt the site of a closed refinery in Michigan, Valero conducted a wetland restoration project to provide physical characteristics essential in developing vegetation and wildlife along the Pine River. The wetland was redesigned to contain multiple habitats prior to seeding the area with a diverse group of native plant species as well as adding multiple wildlife habitat structures. Wildlife, including bald eagles, turtles, multiple species of ducks and a variety of aquatic species, have used this restored wetland area. The project was successfully completed in conjunction with state and local agencies, and continues to flourish as a vital habitat. As part of Pembroke’s construction of a cogeneration unit, it converted a former residence into habitat for local populations of bats relocated because of the new unit. The bat house has attracted a number of new residents. The refinery also is looking to “re-wild” areas of land it owns, a conservation effort aimed at restoring and protecting natural areas through the planting of native broadleaf woodland. Re-wilding is a process that promotes nature-based carbon storage. The refinery also operates an Environmental Education Program and hosts students at its nature boardwalk to explore aquatic plants and animal species.The Galveston Bay Foundation, a nonprofit conservation organization serving the area since 1987, partnered with Valero’s Houston and Texas City refineries for tree planting and habitat restoration events.Valero Houston and Texas City Refineries volunteersThe St. Charles refinery has partnered with the Coastal Conservation Association, a nonprofit that advises and educates the public on conservation and marine resources.In partnership with the nonprofit Texas Coastal Exchange, Valero invested in the capture of 10,000 tons of carbon dioxide in marsh, prairie and woodland habitat in the wetlands of the Texas Gulf Coast near our Port Arthur refinery. Rather than developing the land, landowners commit to preserving the ecosystems to capture carbon dioxide underground.Habitat along Texas Gulf CoastData Verification Valero uses third parties to conduct environmental, emissions and fuel compliance verifications. State, provincial and national governments across the world with cap-and-trade and low-carbon fuel policies require independent assurance of our GHG emissions and the carbon intensity of our low-carbon fuels. In addition, we engaged Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc., an affiliate of Lloyd’s Register North America Inc., to evaluate and issue an assurance statement on the accuracy and reliability of our global refining Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. We intend to continue attaining assurance statements on our global refining GHG emissions each year. Details on independent verifications and assurance statements can be found on our website at 
www.valero.com > Investors > ESG > Reports 
and Presentations. Wetland restoration and tree planting event by Valero’s St. Charles Refinery volunteers.ENVIRONMENTAL METRICSGLOBAL REFINING1 2017 2018 2019 2020 GHG Emissions Scope 11 25.2 25.4 24.8 23.0 GHG Emissions Scope 21 5.2 5.0 4.7 4.5 NOx2 9,300 9,000 8,700 7,900 SOx2 8,800 7,700 8,800 7,600 PM102 2,400 2,300 2,200 2,200 VOCs2 9,500 10,300 7,700 7,500 Fresh Water withdrawn3 181.2 165.8 164.1 164.6 Oil spilled to land (>1 bbl)4 22 25 14 21 Oil spilled to water (>1 bbl)4 0 4 3 4 1Million metric tons CO2e. Scope 1 is defined as the direct GHG emissions from global refinery operations. Scope 2 (market-based) is the indirect GHG emissions from purchased electricity and steam calculated using EPA-derived steam emissions factors and energy supplier-specific emissions factors.
2Metric Tons
3Million m3 
4Count of oil spill events to land or water of more than one barrel.Cogeneration unit at the Wilmington refinery, which reduces our reliance on the local power grid.ENERGY EFFICIENCYMany of our refineries use 
power from renewable sources either from local power grids 
or from our own projects. Local power grids can draw from renewable sources, ranging from hydropower to wind, solar, biogas and geothermal. And we produce some of our own power, from wind or from recycling gases (such as steam and exhaust) within our refining processes. Roughly 22% of our total energy consumption originates from renewable sources.Hydropower: More than 99% of the electricity used at our Quebec City refinery comes from renewable sources – mainly hydropower, with small portions from wind, biomass and biogas.Wind generation: Adjacent to our McKee refinery in the Texas Panhandle, our windfarm was completed in 2009 at an investment of more than $80 million, and includes 33 wind turbines with 50 megawatts of electricity capacity. Cogeneration Plants: Fueled by natural gas, our cogeneration plants reduce our reliance on local power grids, which are often less environmentally friendly and more costly. Cogeneration represents a very efficient way of producing electricity and thermal energy or steam, with the steam recycled back into the refining process for other uses. Valero has cogeneration systems at refineries in Wilmington, Benicia, Port Arthur and Pembroke. Expanders: At six of our refineries, we have installed “expanders” on processing units that generate power from exhaust gases. We have the world’s largest expander at our Corpus Christi West refinery. In all, our expanders are designed with the capacity to annually displace more than 600,000 tons of carbon dioxide that otherwise would be generated by conventional power plants. COMBINED, OUR COGENERATION SYSTEMS
AND EXPANDERS ARE DESIGNED TO OFFSET~330 megawatts OF ELECTRICITY ANNUALLY.ENOUGH TO POWER THE HOMES OF A CITY THE SIZE OF 
SAN FRANCISCO** U.S. Census Bureau. Population estimates as of July 1, 2019. WATER MANAGEMENTWater management is a critical component of our business and we continue to work with stakeholders to improve our performance, while also reducing consumption, by:•	Taking a risk-based approach to water management and integrating water strategy and water security into our long-term planning and business processes •	Engaging with local governments, industry associations, suppliers and regulatory agencies to develop innovative solutions in water management and conservation•	Assessing and managing regional water risks through sustainability assessments •	Protecting existing water resources through sound water management policies •	Recycling and reusing water to minimize demands on fresh water sources and improve efficiencyMost of our water consumption takes place in our refining operations. Based on the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Water Risk Atlas tool, Aqueduct, we determined that only two of our 15 refineries are located in regions with high baseline water stress. Reduction and mitigation initiatives include the evaluation of reused municipal wastewater for cooling tower purposes and acquisition of secured water rights.Water scarcity can be a risk not only to communities but to the refining process. Water is needed for cooling and also in the form of steam for heating. In addition, water plays an important role in removing impurities from feedstocks. Our water-risk-based approach is integrated into our operational and long-term planning to mitigate and reduce water risks. We have taken several steps we believe are necessary to secure our operations in conditions of water scarcity.•	At our Wilmington refinery we have a signed contract to take treated municipal wastewater to supplement our cooling tower makeup water. Upon project completion, we will save up to 420 million gallons of potable water per year. That is roughly the annual amount consumed by 9,000 U.S. households.* •	Our Three Rivers refinery sends treated wastewater for use in irrigation.•	Our Corpus Christi refineries pay into a broad industry fund that provides water-supply security and supports research and plans for the construction of a desalination facility to serve industrial users.•	Our Welcome ethanol plant was one of the industry’s first operators to achieve “zero discharge” of wastewater by recovering and recycling process water and stormwater.•	Process water and stormwater are treated as necessary before discharging or reusing. Our wastewater treatment plants are generally comparable to those operated by most cities.At Valero, we work High efficiency cooling towers at Valero’s Corpus Christi West Refinery.In 2020, we recycled more than 18.5 times the amount of fresh water we withdrew to support our refinery operations, primarily through the recirculation of water in high-efficiency cooling towers.*Source: Water Footprint CalculatorValero’s St. Charles refinery 
laboratory employee