Safety is our foundation
for success.We are focused on being the safest operator in our industry, as we provide reliable and affordable transportation fuels and petrochemical feedstocks for the modern world. That is why we have committed approximately $1.5 billion for each of 2019 and 2020 in capital expenditures, which includes outlays to sustain our operations, and investments in safety and reliability.In 2018, our combined refinery employee and contractor Total Recordable Incidence Rate, or TRIR, stood at 0.35 incidents per 200,000 working hours – half the industry average, and
far lower than many other industries.process safety and reliabilityValero once again achieved high refinery utilization rates, resulting from another excellent performance in process safety and reliability, which are imperative for sustainability and environmentally responsible operations.Our investments in reliability, along with our program of comprehensive reliability assessments and proprietary management systems, have contributed to steady operations excellence in process safety.Mechanical availability – the percentage of time our units are available to operate, and a key indicator of reliability – is projected to be in the first-quartile (top 25 percent) of the industry. Our 97.2% mechanical availability in 2018 reflected our ability to avoid unplanned downtime and successfully execute planned 
and unplanned refinery maintenance.49%reduction in TRIR since 2010Personnel Safety(Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours,
refinery combined employee and contractor)Refining Industry Employees (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics)most-recent year availableValero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  11Process Safety Event Rates(Three-year rolling averages of PSE Tier 1* 
events per 200,000 working hours, rounded)*Tier 1, as defined within American Petroleum Institute 
Recommended Practice 75463%reductionin Tier 1 Process Safety Eventssince 201012Overall 97.2%
mechanical availability,
top quartile of the industryMore than 99% 
mechanical availability
outside of planned
downtime (turnarounds),
eight years runningInvestments in Reliability Contribute to Operations ExcellenceValero has consistently improved compared with industry peers,
leading to lower operating expenses and better efficiency.1st
QuartileValero
20162nd
Quartile3rd
QuartileValero
20084th
QuartileNon-Energy Cash Operating ExpenseEnergy IntensityIndexPersonnel IndexMaintenance Index(Valero’s U.S. refining system performance as a group compared to individual refinery quartile performance standings,
2008 compared with 2016, latest data available; statistics from Solomon Associates and Valero)Valero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  13At Valero, we take pride in our
safety record and continue to
aim for exceptional performance.years without an
employee recordable injury through 2018, the St. Charles refinery in earning the Valero Chairman’s Safety Award3Refining Best Practices Reflected in Ethanol’s
STAR MetricValero’s ethanol segment announced a new program in 2018 called the STAR (Safety Tracking and Recognition) Metric that takes into account our refining leading safety record and best practices and recognizes top performers among our ethanol plants.The program tracks results in five key areas: Process Safety, Reliability, Environmental, Rail Safety, and Policy and Procedure Compliance.Plants achieving no incidents in all five areas are recognized each quarter – with plants going four consecutive quarters without an incident earning a Super STAR award.“Maintaining a safe work environment includes, but goes well beyond, the absence of recordable injuries,” said Darrin Baron, Vice President-Renewables Plant Operations. “Protecting our
No. 1 asset, our employees, is what this metric is all about. This is why we started this metric and why we strive to be perfect every day.”years without a contractor recordable injury through 2018, the St. Charles refinery in earning the Valero Chairman’s Safety Award2employee or contractor 
injuries in 2018, the Charles 
City ethanol plant in earning 
the Valero Chairman’s Renewables Plant Excellence AwardZEROEmployees and guests gather for a celebration recognizing the Charles City plant as the first Super STAR award-winner.“Protecting our No. 1 asset,
our employees, is what this
metric is all about.”14SafetyEnvironmentCommunityEmployeesGovernancesafety highlights10refineries approved as Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Star Sites, OSHA’s highest plant-safety designation, the most of any refiner3asphalt terminals approved as VPP Star Sites5facilities earning safety awards from American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) in 2018, including Elite Silver Safety Awards to the McKee refinery and Wilmington asphalt plant for performance in top 5% of AFPM member companiesValero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  15Outside instructor Lee Hall addresses firefighters training at the Texas A&M fire school. Says Hall: “I think this speaks volumes for how much Valero cares about its facilities, how much it cares about the community.”Valero Takes Local Firefighters
to Texas A&M Fire SchoolJosh Daugherty, a rural volunteer firefighter, didn’t know what to think when told that Valero, new 
owners of the ethanol plant in Bluffton, Indiana, wanted to send him to a world-renowned fire-
training school at Texas A&M University.“I about fell out of my chair,” he said, laughing. “I was ecstatic. We would not be able to afford these opportunities without the help Valero is providing.”Daugherty, who works for a crop seed research company, was one of 28 firefighters – two serving each of Valero’s 14 ethanol plants – selected to
attend the training, underscoring the company’s close relationship with outside emergency response personnel. Some attending the training are Valero employees, most work in trades from farm services to law enforcement, but all serve with local municipal or volunteer fire departments. Valero’s petroleum refineries have emergency response teams. But while its much-smaller ethanol plants have employees trained in emergency response, local fire departments would assist in rare cases of serious emergencies.“Our relationships with these local firefighters are critical, so that they will know how to respond to situations that could arise in industrial settings,” said George Shawver, Valero Director-Health, Safety and Emergency Prepardness.“When I get back, I plan to set up some realistic training so, that way, I can pass on what I’ve learned here and make sure all my officers are on the same page,” said Mike Norman, fire chief for Riga 
Township in Michigan, and a full-time federal police officer. Valero bought ethanol plants in Bluffton and Riga, and Lakota, Iowa, in 2018.Trainees practiced fighting fire on simulated but highly realistic industrial units at the school. An instructor drilled them to think several steps ahead, which he likened to playing chess as opposed to checkers.“I’m grateful to be able to experience this,” 
Daugherty said. “I’ve learned an awful lot.”“Our relationships with these local firefighters are critical, so that they will 
know how to respond to situations that could arise in industrial settings.”16The new state-of-the-art control room at the McKee refinery in the Texas Panhandle is specially designed to withstand powerful tornadoes.emergency preparedness and responseValero evaluates and prepares for physical risks to its facilities from natural disasters and other threats, and works to mitigate risks to its people, assets, surrounding communities and the environment. To reduce physical risks, we construct new infrastructure at raised elevation to protect from flooding, and design new refinery control rooms and employee shelters to withstand powerful tornadoes. Our Gulf Coast refining facilities were designed to weather severe hurricane forces.Even so, Valero has developed a consistent companywide emergency management process designed to identify and address the risks posed to our operations and our people. Our emergency preparedness and response program actively engages facility and corporate employees and leadership, to identify risks and implement long-term solutions.The effort provides for emergency response plans at each facility to comply with all local, state and federal regulations; qualified response teams and relationships with outside response personnel; regular drills and assessments; critical capital resources; and use of emerging technologies.With climate-related risks such as hurricanes, we use a sophisticated hurricane preparedness program to promote the safety and reliability of our assets and the safety of our people. This involves both pre-hurricane-season measures, as well as a five-phase process designed to monitor conditions from the time hurricanes develop across the Atlantic and provide adequate time and resources for our facilities and employees to safely and responsibly prepare for any incoming storms.