COMMUNITYWe will be a good neighbor by sharing our success with the communities where we live and work through volunteerism, charitable giving and the economic support of being a good employer.Valero has built a reputation of being a best-in-class operator and an outstanding corporate citizen by offering a level of philanthropic generosity that is unmatched. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, our rich history of strong community support and fundraising efforts did not waver. In fact, it was just the opposite. Our response was swift and we provided:•	Fuel cards for first responders and nonprofit organizations•	Hand sanitizer and protective gear for emergency responders•	Monetary support for organizations on the front lines•	Educational resources to support online learning•	Volunteers to help serve meals and deliver foodIN 2020, VALERO AND ITS
FOUNDATIONS RAISED$58.4 million
FOR CHARITIES THROUGH FUNDRAISING, DONATIONS AND VOLUNTEERISM$12.2 million
IMMEDIATE COVID-19 SUPPORT“Neighborhood parks are the heart and soul of our community. I thank the Valero Energy Foundation for investing in Hartman Park and for being an early supporter of the 50/50 Park Partners Initiative. We are just getting started with our work to improve greenspace, transform parks and enhance the quality of life for every Houstonian.” – Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner “This year more than ever we are grateful to receive funds from the Valero Benefit for Children and be a charity partner. The kids are with us all day now, and we are supporting distance learning for multiple school districts to mitigate the learning loss our kids will face when they return to school. We are staying on top of the changing schedules and getting the kids the programs and services they need.“ – Anna Eaton, COO, Vacaville Neighborhood
Boys and Girls Club, Vacaville, CaliforniaPILLARS OF GIVING: STRONGER TOGETHERAt Valero, we strive to operate as a good corporate citizen and look for opportunities to work with local officials and fence-line neighbors to improve the quality of life and provide information about our business. Our approach to successful community engagement is to work collaboratively and tailor our partnerships and outreach to meet each community’s unique needs. Our community investment is also viewed through a lens of environmental justice where all people are treated fairly and compassionately, while ensuring our community support is impactful and creates long-term value.  “I can’t thank your  – Denise Gross, executive director, Phil Hardberger Park Conservancy“This year has been an extraordinarily challenging one for our region with the economic impact of COVID-19, as well as numerous tropical storm threats and impacts. To receive this extraordinary donation from the Valero Benefit for Children is perfectly timed as we continue to respond to so many needs that the impacts of 2020 have generated in our community.”  – Dan Maher, president and CEO, 
Southeast Texas Food Bank “Valero has already given us the largest donation we have ever received but to have even more is beyond our expectations. Valero’s staff has really done something special and we can’t thank them enough.” – Tracy Olin, PATCH (Pembrokeshire Action to 
Combat Hardship) manager, Pembroke, U.K. In 2020, more than 800 organizations were supported through Valero’s diverse and inclusive community investment strategy:$0.6 millionEMPLOYEE GIVING/VOLUNTEERISM$2.3 millionIN-KIND DONATIONS$14.0 millionVALERO TEXAS OPEN & 
BENEFIT FOR CHILDREN SUPPORT OF UNITED WAY $16.3 millionCORPORATE AND FOUNDATION GIVING 
(U.S., U.K., CANADA, PERU, MEXICO)$25.1 million$58.4 millionTOTAL GENERATED FOR CHARITIES THROUGH EMPLOYEE AND COMPANY DONATIONS, CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY, FUNDRAISING AND VOLUNTEERISMFOUR PILLARS OF SUPPORT1BASIC NEEDSBasic human needs are essential to having a community that is able to thrive. Support for emergency response services, children’s homes and area food banks are a few examples of this support.33%  |  $19.3 millionHEALTH CAREAmid the COVID-19 global pandemic, we prioritized health care needs in our neighboring communities. Major gifts went to children’s hospitals, medical centers and service providers that offer specialized health care services and programs, including testing facilities for COVID-19.230%  |  $17.5 million3EDUCATIONValero is a strong supporter and advocate of education, and prioritizes learning and college preparation as an investment in our future. We support school-based programs that ensure students have the necessary tools and technology to succeed at all ages, including STEM education programs, mentoring, wrap-around social services and after-school programs.28%  |  $16.4 millionCIVICWe support initiatives that foster the success of the communities where we live and work. Valero supports a wide range of conservation programs, city parks and zoos, libraries and museums as well as safety infrastructure, including police, fire and emergency management services.49%  |  $5.2 millionCOVID-19 GLOBAL PANDEMIC: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS ON FAMILIES AND COMMUNITIES AROUND THE WORLDOur Valero community outreach teams worked tirelessly to
ensure donations were swiftly deployed to alleviate the
hardships of many throughout this crisis.Through corporate and foundation giving, Valero provided more than $12.2 million in grants and in-kind donations, ensuring communities had food, shelter and other basic necessities.Around 20,000 fuel cards ($25, $50, $100 value) were distributed to front-line workers, educators, nurses, first responders and others in need.More than 754 gallons of hand sanitizer was made at our Hartley, Iowa, ethanol plant to help ease the initial shortage of hand sanitizer.“As the COVID-19 pandemic continues and having only one income for the family due to a layoff, this gift from the Valero Energy Corporation at the San Antonio Food Bank distribution was a real blessing. These holidays seemed bleak and filled with stress like we have not experienced in our lives, making this gift more valued and respected. Thank you for your holiday blessing and may the new year bring you joy.” - Robert F., recipient of a Valero fuel card at the San Antonio Food Bank, where Valero presented a $470,000 donation“We are so thankful for the generosity of Valero, our longtime corporate partner. The fact that so many people within Valero took the time to make these masks by hand to support our patients, their families and Driscoll in its effort to care for the children of South Texas makes this a very special donation.” - Martha Avery, vice president of development for Driscoll Children’s Hospital in Corpus Christi, Texas, after receiving a $25,000 grant from the Valero Energy FoundationIn Louisiana, $110,000 was provided to the Second Harvest Food Bank of Greater New Orleans and Acadiana to help increase food packaging and distribution efforts for 23 parishes. Our Three Rivers refinery employees and interns assembled 125 care packages for seniors, including hand sanitizer and toiletries.“Valero’s investment in our strategy to sustain students’ academic and social-emotional growth during these times allowed us to purchase 200 laptops and tablets to help equip our students’ learning environments at home.” - Marlon Foster, founder/chief executive, Knowledge Quest, Memphis, TennesseeDuring the height of the pandemic, the Wilmington Community Clinic in California teamed up with Valero to offer COVID-19 tests for local residents. Those who were tested received a bottle of hand sanitizer as well as a $20 fuel card from Valero. In addition, Valero provided the protective gear for the technicians performing the tests, like the one seen here. MAKING A DIFFERENCE 
AROUND THE WORLDECONOMIC SUPPORTIn the communities where we operate, we are a major employer and strong economic contributor. Our direct and indirect financial support contributes to local businesses, education, municipality infrastructure and other economic development needs for the overall health and vitality of the community. Our employees and contractors make above-average wages and purchase from local vendors.~10,000 
direct jobs, bolstering local economies with payrolls~4,000
contractors $215,048* 
median of the total annual compensation of all employees, excluding our CEO $2 billion
spent in 2020 on maintenance and growth projects, boosting construction and service jobs*See 2021 Proxy Statement, page 71.
See page 109 for notes regarding this page.ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICEValero was the first major energy company to adopt a formal environmental justice policy aimed at improving quality of life for nearby neighborhoods. “By supporting the production of clean American-made transportation fuels such as Valero’s renewable ‘Diamond Green Diesel,’ we are not only bringing well-paid jobs to Port Arthur but also ensuring the affordability of fuels and energy for our community.”- Hilton Kelley, an environmental activist, 2011 Goldman Environmental Prize Winner, and founder of Community In-Power 
and Development Association (CIDA)Our employees at our sites and corporate office work to ensure projects don’t negatively impact our neighbors. Our Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Stephanie Hall, has led strategic efforts on a wide range of legal matters for the company, including collaborative work on environmental justice initiatives and community programs at Valero.  While serving as a member of the National Environmental Justice Advisory Council (NEJAC) in 2010-2015, Hall worked with fellow council members to provide the EPA with consensus advice and recommendations on integrating environmental justice considerations into the agency’s programs, policies and day-to-day activities. She advocated for balance in policymaking and championed many local efforts to further improve Valero’s reach in neighboring communities, including disproportionately burdened minority and/or low-income neighborhoods.Throughout the years, Valero has sought to be a good neighbor by caring about the concerns of its surrounding communities. We believe that energy affordability brings a better future to all communities, and as the lowest-cost operator, we work hard to ensure that happens. As contemplated in our environmental justice and human rights policies, we recognize and appreciate the dignity, value and worth of all human beings. We strive for excellence, operationally (“our license to operate”) and otherwise, in all that we do as a company.Stephanie HallSENIOR VICE 
PRESIDENT AND 
DEPUTY GENERAL COUNSELENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE POLICYValero strives to operate as a good neighbor and looks for opportunities to work with local officials and directly with fence-line neighbors to improve the quality of life for its neighbors and communities.  Valero aims to treat its fence-line neighbors fairly, regardless of race, color, national origin, culture or income. We work to ensure our neighbors have an opportunity to understand our proposed activities and to provide them with a meaningful opportunity to have their concerns heard, with the goal of providing them with greater comfort in our operations.GREAT PLACES TO LIVE AND WORKValero is committed to regular and meaningful communication with fence-line neighbors, community advocacy groups and government entities.We work to understand local needs and then collaboratively engage 
and respond in a timely manner.LISTEN
for local needsRESPOND
timelyENGAGE
collaborativelyOUR NEIGHBORSValero uses numerous communication tools and resources to engage with local stakeholders, including one-on-one meetings, newsletters, information lines and community advisory councils or panels, which we call CACs or CAPs. INDUSTRY AND 
BUSINESS PARTNERSValero encourages responsible business development and works with industry and business partners to see that environmental, employee, social and health concerns are addressed.  INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIESOur refinery in Ardmore, Oklahoma, is in the heart of the Chickasaw Nation and has a long-standing relationship with this Indigenous tribe. During the construction of a recent 2.8-mile pipeline near Ardmore, four communities were consulted, including the Osage Nation, Wichita and Affiliated Tribes, Chickasaw Nation and Quapaw Tribe of Indians. “Engagement with, and collaboration between, local sponsors and the people they serve are important in preserving the vitality of the community. This is accomplished by providing a safe space where community concerns can be freely voiced. This safe space ultimately builds trust. Trust is essential if we are to establish real authentic relationships that lead to positive progress.” – Sharon Bailey Murphy, manager of environmental affairs, City of Corpus Christi, TexasValero volunteers from our Houston refinery work regularly with the neighboring Manchester community. During the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, volunteers passed out 250 bags with face masks, hand sanitizer and a resource guide that connected residents to nonprofits. Volunteers also passed out 150 backpacks full of school supplies for neighborhood students.GOVERNMENT OFFICIALSValero works closely with local, state and federal governments to share information about its business and understand public policies.  Government officials are invited to Valero sites to learn about operations and their impacts on the communities. NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (NGOs)Valero is committed to constructive dialogue with NGOs to better understand and address their concerns. COMMUNITY AND
BUSINESS PARTNERSFor more than 20 years, Valero’s refinery in Memphis has been donating food and funding to Feed The Needy, which provides thousands of boxes of food every year to residents.In 2020, the organization distributed more than 270,000 pounds of food and funding to feed 3,600 families throughout Memphis and the greater Mid-South. Valero volunteers, along with one of our business partners, Barnhart Crane, served on the front lines, helping to ensure our neighbors had food on their tables for the holidays. “My first year I made a delivery to an elderly lady. When I opened the door, it was just her and a dog in the house. The food delivery weighed over 
60 pounds, so I lifted out the heavy turkey and placed it in her sink. Then I opened the refrigerator and the only thing inside was dog food, a gallon of cold water and condiments. When I finished that delivery, I was a little shook up. It brought tears to my eyes. Now, I’m committed to the cause,” said Steve Freeman, Barnhart Crane’s project manager.Barnhart Crane has stepped up to provide volunteers, equipment, warehouse space and monetary contributions. Feed The Needy Chair Ruth Rawlings-Banks believes a difference can be made when a community pulls together. Last November, Valero Memphis Refinery’s Vice President and General Manager Eric Brown presented Feed The Needy a check for $54,000 for food and fuel. “We were glad to offer support as Feed The Needy helped out thousands of families through the pandemic,” said Brown.“Many of our neighbors are living paycheck to paycheck. The pandemic has caused more people to find themselves in need. We are truly grateful for Valero, Barnhart Crane and every contribution from our stakeholders.”  – Ruth Rawlings-Banks, Feed The Needy chairADVANCING OUR COMMUNITIES FOR FUTURE GENERATIONSKemah, Texas: 
Valero volunteers from our Houston and Texas City refineries planted 140 trees through a partnership with the Galveston Bay Foundation. “Valero is an important partner to help support all the efforts that are going on in the community,” said Bob Stokes, president of the Galveston Bay Foundation. “We both care about the bay and it’s in both of our interests to make sure that the bay is a clean and healthy place.”Valero actively engages and partners with environmental organizations on opportunities to improve air and water quality and protect resources and habitats. Since 2005, we have partnered with dozens of groups throughout the United States, Europe and Canada to plant more than 20,000 trees and help improve the environment for future generations.St. Charles, Louisiana: 
For more than 10 years, Valero has worked closely with the Pontchartrain Conservancy, formerly Lake Pontchartrain Basin Foundation, to plant nearly 5,000 trees. Quebec, Canada: 
For the fifth consecutive year, volunteers from our Quebec refinery planted trees and shrubs in the lands adjacent to Parc de la Rivière-Etchemin to enhance the natural landscape. Benicia, California: 
Valero has a long-standing partnership with the Benicia Tree Foundation to plant and prune trees annually throughout the area. Pembroke, U.K.: 
In the United Kingdom, school children have been participating in the environmental program at the nature boardwalk and environmental center located next to our Pembroke refinery for the past 10 years. Activities include animal identification skills and developing a general appreciation for nature. VOLUNTEERISMVolunteerism is deeply woven into the
social fabric of Valero’s culture.Our employees have a passion for helping to build better communities and regularly share their time and talents.  At each of our sites, a Valero Volunteer Council targets a number of hands-on projects throughout the year. In 2020, our employees around the globe volunteered an impressive 84,000 hours.San Antonio – The presidents of our volunteer councils met in San Antonio in February of 2020 and took part in a special project at Haven for Hope, a transformational campus for the homeless. The volunteers helped paint and clean up the facility’s courtyard and served coffee, hot chocolate and smiles to some of the residents.Callao, Peru – During the Christmas season, Valero volunteers directly reached 1,000 homes in the Márquez community, delivering thousands of toys as well as boxes with basic necessities and holiday food, including hot chocolate and pastries.  Ardmore, Oklahoma – In early 2020, a group of Valero engineers spent a day working with sixth graders at Plainview Public Schools. A Valero engineer was assigned to a group of students to help develop a hands-on project.   Our employees serve on more than 300 nonprofit/civic boards around the world that address a wide variety of needs to help strengthen communities.Pembroke, U.K. – Valero volunteers were back at Barrow Farm RDA helping with weed-clearing, hedge-cutting and replacing fence posts, all in a COVID-19-compliant way. The charity provides services to children and adults with special needs and disabilities.Memphis, Tennessee – As part of a 15-year tradition, employees at the Memphis refinery “adopted” 39 children from the neighboring community to provide Christmas gifts, including clothing, shoes and toys.Quebec, Canada – Employees at the Quebec refinery donated nonperishable food and other goods during their traditional Christmas collection for Comptoir Le Grenier, a community food counter for people in need.OUR INVESTMENTS AT WORK$400+ Million Impact in Communities
Over the Past 10 Years!Valero Texas Open & Benefit for ChildrenValero has been the title sponsor of the Valero Texas Open since 2002. As part of the tournament fundraising effort, Valero sponsors the “Benefit for Children” and “Champions fore Charity” events, helping make the Valero Texas Open one of the most charitable tournaments on the PGA Tour.In 2020, the Valero Texas Open as well as the Benefit for Children and Champions fore Charity were canceled due to the pandemic; however, our very generous business partners and donors helped Valero provide more than 
$14 million to nonprofits across the United States. Given the urgency of need and enormous demand for social services, the distribution of funds was expedited to more than 300 organizations. Another $16 million in net proceeds was raised through the tournament’s fundraising efforts in 2021, which will be distributed later in the year.“None of this would be possible without the incredible generosity of our business partners, sponsors and individual donors, who despite the tournament’s cancellation, continued to provide their support because they share in our mission of caring for communities coast to coast. We are blessed by our long-standing relationships with Benefit for Children top sponsors, including the Richard Industrial Group, The Stronghold Companies, EMCOR Industrial Services, B&E Resources, Universal Plant Services, Burns & McDonnell, Zachry and Bay Ltd.” – Eric Fisher, Senior Vice President, Wholesale Marketing and International Commercial Operations and the chair of the 2020 and 2021 Valero Texas Open and fundraising eventsNET PROCEEDS RAISEDMORE THAN$14 million$187 millionIN 2020MORE THAN+$16 millionIN ALL-TIME NET PROCEEDS THROUGH 2021IN 2021MORE THAN2020 DISTRIBUTION BY THE NUMBERS24%45%31%FOR HEALTH CAREFOR BASIC NEEDSFOR EDUCATION•	$100,000 in St. Charles, Louisiana, for Creative Family Solutions to provide professional counseling services throughout the pandemic•	$100,000 in Port Arthur, Texas, Garth House Mickey Mehaffy Children’s Advocacy Program to help prevent child abuse and neglect•	$125,000 in Corpus Christi, Texas, to support the Coastal Bend Food Bank in supplying food to families in the 11 counties it serves•	$60,000 in Three Rivers, Texas, to the Live Oak County Child Welfare Inc. to provide child care services  •	$250,000 to Port Arthur, Texas, for technology support for the independent school district’s 8,300 students•	$100,000 to the Houston Independent School District Foundation for the Children East End Innovation Fund, which provides grants to district educators to enhance programs and curriculum“We know that many in our community are struggling due to the pandemic. These nonprofit organizations are faced with increased needs for services and dwindling donations. Valero understands how important it is to continue supporting them and the work they do for children in our community, and our foundation is proud to continue our support.”- Cory Moss, Vice President and General Manager of the Valero Texas City RefineryUNITED WAY: 
40 YEARS UNITED Valero’s 2020 United Way pledge campaign far exceeded expectations.Despite a global pandemic, Valero employees remained united in their generous commitment to United Way throughout the country. In fact, employees increased their average pledge by more than $100, raising the Valero employee per capita gift to $1,281. “Like many things in 2020, we altered our campaign activities to ensure the safety and health of our employees. Despite the changes, our employees remained committed to helping communities, and the final results reflect the company’s 40-year legacy of giving back,” said Mark Schmeltekopf, Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, Valero’s companywide campaign chair.One example of our United Way partnership at work was in the Los Angeles Harbor area. As students continued remote learning, Valero and the United Way of Greater Los Angeles saw a huge need for children to be able to access technology and internet services to complete their school work. Valero and the United Way of Greater Los Angeles provided $200,000 to set up learning pods at three local community organizations: The Boys and Girls Club of Los Angeles Harbor, Strength Based Community Change and the YMCA of Wilmington. The learning pods facilitate online class engagement, allow staff at the organizations to work with students and help them get online to complete their classwork.2020 TOTAL CAMPAIGN:$16.3 million“The digital divide existed before COVID-19, but the pandemic exposed the enormity of the challenge for families in our community,” said Yolanda De La Torre, YMCA of Wilmington executive director. “Thank you, United Way and Valero, for investing in our Wilmington community and allowing us to bring peace of mind to our families and especially our youth during this unprecedented time.”INVESTMENTS AT WORKIn 2020, Valero had the privilege of seeing the final impact of several noteworthy capital investments:Houston – Move-in Day! 
Valero volunteers moved in furniture and equipment to the new St. Austin Community Center. The 30,000-square foot center was made possible, in part, by a $1 million contribution in 2018 by the Valero Energy Foundation, and provides residents with access to medical care.San Antonio – It’s Open! 
In 2020, San Antonio city officials and Valero celebrated the opening of the Phil Hardberger Park & Land Bridge, a tribute to former Mayor Phil Hardberger. In 2018, Valero provided $750,000 to assist with the construction of the amazing new addition to San Antonio. Pembroke, U.K. – Magical Sight!
In 2019, Valero volunteers planted 2,000 spring bulbs in a sensory garden at Richard House Children’s Hospice in East London. The garden is now in full bloom with daffodils.  Dumas, Texas (McKee) – Open for Patients! 
In 2019, the Valero Energy Foundation invested $275,000 in an expansion project at Moore County Hospital to add a new emergency room, operating rooms and patient rooms for the hospital. The new section of the hospital opened in January 2021. In U.S. communities where Valero has operations, our employees’ generosity sets the bar and drives the success of local United Way campaigns, often comprising the largest portion of the overall pledge contributions for that market. UNITED WAY OF MID & SOUTH JEFFERSON COUNTY – Valero Port Arthur Refinery is the No. 1 contributor, providing 74% of funds for the annual campaign. UNITED WAY OF SOUTH CENTRAL OKLAHOMA – Valero Ardmore Refinery is the No. 1 contributor, making up around 55% of the annual campaign.UNITED WAY OF THE COASTAL BEND (TEXAS) – Valero’s refineries in Corpus Christi and Three Rivers together are the No. 1 contributor, providing around 38% of the annual pledge campaign. UNITED WAY OF GALVESTON COUNTY MAINLAND – Valero Texas City Refinery is the No. 1 contributor, providing around 36% of the campaign.UNITED WAY OF ST. CHARLES (LOUISIANA) – Valero is the No. 1 contributor, making up 33% of the annual pledge campaign.UNITED WAY OF SPENCER (IOWA) – Valero’s Hartley and Albert City ethanol plants are the No. 1 contributors to the organization’s annual campaign. UNITED WAY OF SAN ANTONIO – Valero’s corporate office is the No. 2 contributor in employee contributions, providing around 12% of the total campaign.UNITED WAY OF GREATER LOS ANGELES – Valero Wilmington Refinery is the No. 4 contributor.UNITED WAY OF THE MID-SOUTH – Valero Memphis Refinery was presented with three awards in 2020: Best Team Effort, Best Difference Maker and Best Game Changer. 