We are committed stewards of the environment.Valero has made major capital investments in its operations to improve environmental performance – from renewable diesel to installation of cogeneration and flare-gas recovery systems, and even wind energy that powers a refinery.Continuous improvements in process safety and equipment reliability have driven down environmental events to record lows.Valero has dramatically reduced environmental incidents, criteria emissions, flaring events and energy use.We target best-in-class environmental performance through an emphasis on reliability and operational excellence, and investments in renewable energy. And our employees participate in a variety of environmental stewardship efforts.refining 
environmental 
incidents*
since 200768%reduction inethanol 
environmental 
incidents*
since 201091%reduction in*Valero “scorecard” events, internal tracking of emission, flaring, spill and wastewater incidentsValero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  19criteria emissionsEven as Valero has boosted U.S. refinery throughput capacity, criteria emissions* have dropped. Throughput refers to processing of crude oil and other feedstocks.flaringFlares are used to safely combust gases that otherwise would be emitted during outages or other events. But Valero has taken aggressive steps to reduce the need for flaring, by avoiding outages and improving reliability.Valero also has reduced flaring by improving flare-gas combustion efficiency, installing instruments to assist in controlling flare-gas flow and composition, and reusing recovered gas for energy.Since 2007, for Valero U.S. refineries**25%increase inthroughput
capacity88%reduction intotal flaring events
since 2006Criteria Air Emissions*Thousand barrels per
day of throughputThousand TonsAnnual Flaring Events***including carbon monoxide, lead, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, ground-level ozone and sulfur dioxide, U.S. refineries only**most-recent emissions data available at year-end 201899%flaring-free
refinery operations44%reduction incriteria
emissions20energy conservationContinuous improvement in energy conservation drives efficient performance.In 2018, Valero maintained its record-low energy use. The company’s comprehensive energy stewardship program has sharply focused on improvements in process operations.More than 99% of the electricity used at Valero’s Jean Gaulin refinery in Canada comes from renewable sources – mainly hydropower, with small portions from wind, biomass and biogas. Valero also has cogeneration plants and a wind farm to power refineries.greenhouse gas emissionsThrough the use of new technologies and improved operations, we have continuously decreased refinery greenhouse gas emissions despite an increase in throughput capacity.

We track and publicly disclose our greenhouse gas emissions and closely follow regulatory developments. Over the years, those emissions from our refineries have declined through companywide initiatives as well as facility-specific solutions.Valero’s refineries have achieved a14%reduction inenergy use
since 201321%reduction ingreenhouse gas emissions
since 2010Refining Greenhouse Gas Emissions*(Tons of carbon dioxide equivalent
per barrel of throughput, rounded)Refining Total Energy Use(Million Btu per barrel of throughput, rounded) ***U.S. refineries only
**most-recent data available at year-end 2018cogenerationAs cogeneration systems produce electricity and steam for refinery operations, fueled by natural gas, they boost power and environmental performance, and reduce operating expenses.They also help relieve the local power grid.wastewater managementOur manufacturing operations generate process water along with stormwater that we treat, if needed, before discharge or reuse. Accordingly, each of our refineries has a wastewater treatment plant that is comparable to, or even more complex than, those operated by most cities.These plants are operated by personnel trained and skilled in wastewater management and treatment. Valero uses specialized bacteria that naturally digest oil and waste streams. A corporate wastewater technology adviser works with each plant to ensure our systems are designed and operated to the highest standards.We have significantly reduced our reportable wastewater discharge events.recycling processesValero employs a number of recycling processes that benefit the environment. For example, refineries recover usable oil from waste materials and reprocess remaining oily solids into high-value fuel through a method called “coker injection,” avoiding generation and disposal of wastes. In 2018:ethanolIn 2009, Valero became the first traditional petroleum refiner to enter large-scale ethanol production. Further expanding our renewable strategy, we acquired three plants in 2018, becoming the world’s second-largest corn ethanol producer, investing $1.7 billion in the segment to date.Ethanol is a clean-burning, high-octane 
renewable fuel produced by fermenting processed corn starch with yeast, and is blended with gasoline. After ethanol is removed from fermented corn mash, distillers grains are produced as valuable livestock feed.The entire kernel of corn is processed into products with little liquid or solid waste. And, after applying best operational practices from our refining business, we are the low-cost operator in the industry, with plants acquired at 35% of replacement cost and operating better than pre-acquisition performance. Production and logistics assets position Valero well to support export growth. In fact, in 2018, we accounted for more than 22% of U.S. ethanol exports.epa efficient producer programSix of our 14 ethanol plants are recognized under the Efficient Producer Program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for superior process efficiency – through reduced on-site energy consumption, increased fuel output and/or use of biomass or biogas from certain sources to reduce process energy greenhouse gas emissions.Three more plants are expected to be recognized in 2019.sunray windCompleted in 2009 at an investment of 
$80 million, Valero’s wind farm, known as Sunray Wind, includes 33 wind turbines generating enough electricity to power the adjacent McKee refinery in the Texas Panhandle under optimal wind conditions.Sunray Wind reduces the refinery’s dependence on energy produced from conventional power plants, which release thousands of tons of air emissions and consume millions of gallons of water each year. In addition, the wind farm reduces operating expenses.The project won a Texas Environmental Excellence Award from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality in 2013.being a good neighborValero takes pride in being a good neighbor and the first major energy company to adopt a formal Environmental Justice Policy, initiating a real outreach to fence-line communities.The company diligently looks for ways to build relationships with its neighbors, such as in regular meetings with local community advisory panels (CAP), and expand upon its outreach in an effort to continue improving the quality of life of its communities.For example, Valero partners with Community In-Power and Development Association Inc. (CIDA), a community environmental justice advocacy organization in Port Arthur, Texas, to help facilitate medical clinics, sponsor minority youth development projects, and support area renewal projects and efforts to break the cycles of poverty.In 2018, Valero continued its support of youth mentoring organizations such as the Lion Hearted Boxing Academy in Port Arthur, and broke ground for a new park and community garden there. The West Port Arthur Park and Community Garden later opened, as part of a supplemental environmental project with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.The model one-acre park and garden features 35 raised garden beds “adopted” by local residents, organizations and churches to grow their own produce, as well as a playground and pavilion.“Once Valero came in, they took a different approach,” said Hilton Kelly, director of CIDA. “They wanted to hear what we had to say. I had the opportunity to meet with some of the Valero top personnel … and they stepped in, in a big way.”Valero fulfills its good-neighbor policy in many ways, whether it’s engaging openly with 
fence-line communities about its operations or 
assisting efforts in areas such as health, security and education.•	In Corpus Christi, Texas, Valero is a principal sponsor of the Long Term Health Workgroup, which reviews air-monitoring data on a monthly basis. Over the past decade, according to workgroup reports, the industry has reduced certain air concentrations by 80% because of its collective work at investing in better technology and 
continuous work with its neighbors.•	The Benicia refinery in California keeps a website that displays readings from air-quality sensors along its fence line, showing emissions data in near-real-time for neighbors to stay informed about conditions.•	The Valero Energy Foundation is providing $1 million to CHRISTUS Foundation for Healthcare for a clinic near our Houston refinery that will provide free or low-cost health care for residents of the adjacent Manchester and other East End neighborhoods. Valero additionally sponsors a “National Night Out” event for the neighborhood that helps promote community awareness and safety, and foster relations between law enforcement and the community.•	Committed to boosting educational opportunities for students in Houston’s Manchester and East End, Valero also partners with the YES Prep East End Academy, sponsoring the school’s Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics programming, and donating funds for supplies.~80 megawatts
of electricity no longer needs to be supplied by the power grid in California, because of Valero’s cogeneration plants,61%reduction in reportable 
wastewater discharge 
events since 2007saving power for~100,000 homes.Valero has invested in cogeneration systems at refineries in Wilmington and Benicia (California), Port Arthur (Texas) and Pembroke (United Kingdom).22Valero Three Rivers Refinery personnel oversee a hay farm that’s irrigated with treated wastewater from the refinery through center-pivot sprinkler systems.Three Rivers Refinery Finds Green Solution with Treated WastewaterThe Valero Three Rivers Refinery in Texas has mastered a safe and efficient way of disposing of treated wastewater from the plant while also giving back to the ecosystem naturally.The refinery pipes the treated wastewater to 1,438 acres of nearby, privately owned farm land for irrigation, producing 3,000 bales of hay annually for farms and ranches. Much of the hay Valero produces goes to the storied King Ranch in South Texas.The project is in keeping with Valero’s overall efforts to reuse treated water, and also is effective in helping combat regional drought conditions.“Each year, we have a new harvest of eco-friendly hay grown only with the treated water,” said Sergio Vera, who oversees the project as a Senior Environmental Specialist at the refinery. “It’s a project we are very proud of, and everyone here feels good knowing that the water is being used in a safe and productive way.”The idea for the project came about in the early 1980s. Refinery wastewater is treated through an on-site wastewater treatment plant, filtering material that could impact the hay. The processed water is sent through a 10-inch pipe to a 224-acre reservoir at the irrigation site located three miles north of the refinery.The water then is pumped to one of five center-pivot irrigation systems. The long, A-shaped structures with sprinklers crawl gradually in circles around a center point to cover the grassland.The hay is suitable for cattle, horses, hogs and goats. And the conditions at Three Rivers happen to be just right, with ample farmland and favorable weather conditions year-round.“It really is a brilliant system,” Vera said. “It’s better for the environment and economical.”“It’s a project we are very proud of, and everyone here feels good
knowing that the water is being used in a safe and productive way.”Valero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  23250
feet tall33
wind turbinesHelps power the
McKee refinery50
megawatts of electricity24renewable dieselUp to80%greenhouse gas emissions,
versus traditional dieselreduction in A ground-level view of our renewable diesel plant
is shown shortly after its 2018 expansion.Renewable Diesel is Valero’s Low-carbon CenterpieceValero has allocated nearly $1 billion in low-carbon growth capital for its share of Diamond Green Diesel, the world’s second-largest renewable diesel producer, in a 50/50 joint venture with Darling Ingredients Inc.Strategically located next to our St. Charles refinery in Louisiana to capture synergies and gain access to export markets, the Diamond Green Diesel plant produces renewable diesel fuel from recycled animal fats, used cooking oil and inedible corn oil.A major expansion is underway to more than double annual capacity to 675 million gallons from 275 million gallons, by late 2021. This represents an investment of $550 million from Valero – on top of about $350 million in growth capital to date.Renewable diesel fuel can cut greenhouse gas emissions by up to 80%, compared with traditional diesel. But unlike biodiesel, which primarily is made from soybean oil, renewable diesel is 100% compatible with existing engines, can be transported through traditional diesel pipelines and is not susceptible to freezing temperatures and separation during storage.“We actually plug into the existing infrastructure that the industry uses already,” said Clay Bryant, Diamond Green Diesel’s Commercial Manager.Diamond Green Diesel’s fuel is sold primarily into the large California on-road diesel fuel market for Low Carbon Fuel Standard compliance. Significant volume also goes to Canadian and European customers for compliance with their respective low-carbon fuel requirements.Said Martin Parrish, Valero Senior Vice President-Alternative Fuels: “If you’re trying to meet a low-carbon mandate, we think that renewable diesel is 
the best fuel out there.”“If you’re trying to meet a low-carbon mandate, we think that renewable diesel is the best fuel out there.”Valero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  25PendingRecognizedour largest plants annually processmillion bushels of corn, into49million gallons of ethanol140368,000tons of distillers grains 266.9 million gallons
of usable oil recovered
10,391 dry tons of material reprocessed,
a 95% increase from 2013We recycle material recovered from tank cleaning for use by cement kilns in their processes. The material otherwise would be incinerated and sent to landfills. In 2018:608 tons of ash to landfills avoided
203,000 gallons of waste-derived fuel sent to cement kilns,displacing 1,216 tons of coal
26,842 tons
of ash avoided since 2013Valero also recycles spent refining catalyst material that otherwise would be disposed in landfills. The recovered metals are regenerated for use as catalyst or as raw materials by other manufacturers. In 2018:14.4 million pounds
of spent refining catalyst recycledValero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  27Valero Restores Critical Wetlands with Annual
Tree-plantingValero’s work with the Lake Pontchartrain Basin Foundation near the company’s St. Charles refinery in Louisiana serves as a strong demonstration of its environmental engagement, with broad social impact.For more than 10 years, Valero has partnered with the foundation, which serves areas in Louisiana like the LaBranche Wetlands where there are multiple hurricane protection levees.Valero has assisted the foundation on multiple tree-planting projects, including in 2018 when a group of Valero volunteers helped plant approximately 500 cypress trees in the LaBranche Wetlands. Restoring the swamp in front of the levees with tree-planting is important in protecting the area from hurricanes.For the past three years, Valero employees have taken part in tree-planting in the area with a total of about 2,000 trees bolstering wetlands.Dr. John Lopez, Coastal Sustainability Program Director for the nonprofit foundation, said the group works with a lot of different industries, but Valero “stands out. Their employees care about this area just like we do.”For the latest project, Valero also donated funds to help cover supplies, airboat rental (the only way to get around) and other costs relating to planting and monitoring growth of the trees.“Being environmentally friendly is part of Valero’s mission,” said Taryn Rogers, Lead Community Relations Specialist for the St. Charles refinery. “When we heard about the project, we just couldn’t wait to get involved.”St. Charles refinery volunteers plant cypress trees in the vast LaBranche Wetlands.