Safety is our foundation
for success.Reliability engineer at the Valero Meraux Refinery responsible for maintaining the mechanical integrity 
of our assets.Valero is dedicated to safety. We strive to make sure our employees and contractors go home safely and to meet our fence-line communities' expectations. A decrease in the number of employee and process safety events reduces unplanned shutdowns and increases the operational reliability of our plants. This, in turn, translates into a safer workplace with fewer environmental incidents and stronger community relations. We strive to improve safety and reliability performance by making it an integral part of our culture and offering year-round training for our employees and contractors. To bolster our safety performance, we conduct safety audits, quality assurance visits and comprehensive risk assessments at our facilities. 2021 set new records for 
safety performance. Our efforts to make continuous improvements resulted in 2021 being our best year ever for safety performance. Refinery employee annual total recordable incident rate (TRIR) was a record low of 0.21 incidents per 200,000 working hours, while the refinery Tier 1 process safety event rate was its lowest ever at 0.05 events per 200,000 working hours. In 2021, we spent approximately $1.8 billion in capital to grow and sustain our operations as part of our commitment to investments in safety, preventive equipment maintenance, environmental mitigation and reliability.See page 111 for notes regarding this page and for non-GAAP disclosures.2021
was a record year for safety performance.2021 Safety HighlightsFOUR manufacturing facilities received Elite Gold or Elite Silver Awards for safety excellence from American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM), the industry’s major trade association:•	One Elite Gold Award to St. Charles refinery for performance in the top five percentile of industry safety, demonstrating superior and consistent safety performance, innovation and leadership.•	Three Elite Silver Awards to Wilmington Asphalt Plant and Texas City and 
Three Rivers refineries for performance in the top 10 percentile of industry safety.ONE refinery - Three Rivers - received the Innovation Award from AFPM, given to sites that implemented unique and innovative programs to effectively improve occupational or process safety performance. The refinery implemented an energy isolation lock-out device for testing alkylation unit fire monitors and vapor suppression systems. TEN manufacturing facilities - Wilmington Asphalt Plant and Ardmore, Benicia, Corpus Christi (two plants), Three Rivers, Texas City, St. Charles, Wilmington and Houston refineries - received Safety Achievement Awards from AFPM for meeting strict safety screening criteria.TOP PERFORMER refinery - 
St. Charles - received the 2021 Valero Chairman’s Safety Award after finishing the year with the best safety performance of all our refineries.THREE refineries - St. Charles, Houston 
and Wilmington - with ZERO employee recordable injuries.FOUR refineries - Ardmore, McKee, Quebec and Texas City - with ZERO contractor recordable injuries.ELEVEN ethanol plants with ZERO employee recordable injuries. TWELVE ethanol plants with ZERO contractor recordable injuries.TWENTY consecutive years of Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Star Site status for Texas City refinery. VPP is the U.S. Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)’s highest plant-safety designation. ELEVEN ethanol plants had ZERO Tier 1 process safety events. TEN refineries with fewer Tier 2 process safety events in 2021 than in 2020.NINE refineries are approved as OSHA VPP Star Sites, the most of any refiner.TWO international refineries - Pembroke and Quebec - are approved as Valero VPP Star Sites.EIGHT refineries - Quebec, Ardmore, Texas City, Corpus Christi (two plants), Wilmington, Benicia and Pembroke - with ZERO Tier 1 process safety events.LOWEST three-year average Tier 1 process safety event rate achieved in 2021.72% reduction in our Tier 1 process safety event rate since the industry began tracking the metric in 2010.Since its introduction in 2020, Valero has received FOUR out of 12 AFPM Innovation Awards.To achieve VPP Star Site status, plants must demonstrate that enhanced safety systems have been implemented and embraced in a collaborative way by site leaders and employees. Sites are reassessed by OSHA every three to five years in order to maintain their VPP status.Refinery Employee Personnel Safety(Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours)IndustryValeroTotal Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)1.10Industry0.500.620.2120212011201220132014201520162017201820192020Refining Industry Employees
(U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics)Safety MetricsGLOBAL REFINING 2018 2019 2020 2021 Personnel Safety Employee (TRIR)1 0.40 0.25 0.35 0.21 Personnel Safety Contractor (TRIR)1 0.32 0.39 0.15 0.26 Fatality Rate Employee2 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Fatality Rate Contractor2 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 Process Safety Event Rate - Tier 13 0.07 0.05  0.06 0.05 Process Safety Event Rate - Tier 23 0.31 0.17 0.17 0.15 1 Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours.2 Per 200,000 working hours.3 Global refining Tier 1 process safety event (PSE) rate and Tier 2 PSE rate as defined within API Recommended Practice 754.Valero Refineries vs. Other Sectors(Injuries recorded per 200,000 working hours)Valero Refinery 
Employees0.21Finance and
Insurance0.3Travel Arrangement
Services0.4Petroleum Refineries0.5SOURCES: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Valero; Industry figures are for 2020; Valero refinery figure, 2021.Electric Power 
Generation1.5Forestry andLogging2.4Construction2.5Manufacturing3.1FramingContractors6.8Hospitals7.6Process Safety and Mechanical AvailabilityProcess SafetyKeeping employees and communities safe is a top priority. Our process safety and reliability programs provide safeguards for ensuring our equipment is correctly designed, regularly maintained and safely operated. In addition to capital investments in reliability, our industry-leading technical assessments are core to our commitment to excellence. These comprehensive programs, developed more than 10 years ago, promote consistent and best-in-class process safety and reliability expectations across our refining operations. From 2008 to 2018, Valero’s mechanical availability has improved from third quartile to industry-leading first quartile, and we continue to focus on maintaining our processing units as highly reliable. Our Tier 1 and Tier 2 Process Safety Event (PSE) three-year average rates have also set new records each year, as we continually focus on reducing process safety incident severity and frequency. We take a systematic, collaborative and thorough approach to required process safety incident investigations to ensure learnings are captured and shared across the organization. Our objective is to understand the root cause, as well as any human factors that contributed to an incident. Communication of our investigation findings is key to the prevention of similar incidents. Process safety is not an outcome or a status achieved; it is a Valero core value with an objective of continuous improvement to support our operational excellence goals. Maintaining safe, stable and reliable operations and ensuring efficiency and consistency in how we work are imperative for Valero to continue its industry-leading performance across maintenance and personnel indices and non-energy operating expense. 2021
set new records for
safety performance.1 Tier 1 process safety event - Losses of primary containment of greatest consequence, causing harm to a member of the workforce, costly damage to equipment or exceeding defined quantities. 2 Tier 2 process safety event - Losses of primary containment of lesser consequence than Tier 1. Tier 1 PSE rate and Tier 2 PSE rate as defined by the API Recommended Practice 754.2021 Process Safety
Event (PSE) RatesIndustryValero0.180.150.080.05Tier 11Tier 22Mechanical AvailabilityIn 2021, we achieved 97.2% mechanical availability, continuing our strong performance in avoiding unplanned downtime, minimizing environmental events and successfully executing planned and unplanned refinery maintenance in a timely manner. Highly reliable refinery operations are essential to curbing environmental incidents and improving safety. Our capital investments in reliability, along with our program of comprehensive reliability assessments and proprietary management systems, have also contributed to consistent process safety performance excellence. We also achieved a record low refinery 
Tier 1 Process Safety Event rate of 0.05 events per 200,000 working hours in 2021. The Tier 1 process safety rate is the American Petroleum Institute’s measure of recordable safety incidents occurring in conjunction with a loss of process containment.Improvement in Mechanical Availability1ST20182ND3RD20084THIndustry Benchmark QuartilesIndustry benchmarking and Valero’s performance statistics from Solomon Associates and Valero.2018 is the most reliable industry data set, as the results of Solomon’s 2020 Fuels Study were impacted by COVID-19-related demand destruction.Reliability Investments Contribute to Operations, Safety and Environmental ExcellenceValero has consistently improved reliability, compared with industry peers, leading to lower operating expenses, better efficiency and improved environmental performance. Improvement in Personnel Index1Improvement in Maintenance Index21ST2ND20183RD20084THIndustry Benchmark QuartilesValero’s U.S. refining system performance compared to individual peer refinery quartile performance. Industry benchmarking and Valero’s performance statistics from Solomon Associates and Valero.2018 is the most reliable industry data set, as the results of Solomon’s 2020 Fuels Study were impacted by COVID-19-related demand destruction.1 Personnel index represents annual total company staff and contractor work hours per refinery equivalent distillation capacity (EDC). EDC is a measure that equalizes complexity differences among refineries in order to compare performance. 2 Maintenance index represents the sum of the non-turnaround maintenance costs per EDC and the annualized turnaround costs per EDC. Tier 1 Process Safety3Process Safety 
Event Rate0.16367%
Reduction in 
Tier 1 Process Safety Event 
Rates since 201130.053201520162017201820192020201120122021201320143 Three-year rolling averages of Tier 1 PSE per 200,000 working hours. Tier 1 PSE rate as defined by the API Recommended Practice 754.Goal Zero Safety ProgramOur Goal Zero program is aimed at eliminating incidents arising from seven hazard sources. This innovative program takes a data-driven approach to identifying focus areas to bring incidents and injury rates down to zero. Goal Zero is supported by assessments, such as Valero’s Safety Assessment for Excellence (VSAFE) and Control of Hazardous Energy and Materials Assessment (CHEM), which evaluate refinery procedures from the preparation of equipment for maintenance to the way the equipment is returned to service. The CHEM assessments closely examine the human aspect of our processes and challenge our team members to focus on the execution of procedures designed to protect them.COMMUNITYPEOPLEGOVERNANCEENVIRONMENTSAFETYLife-Saving Rules“Life-Saving Rules” are an essential part of our Goal Zero initiative. Violations of these rules carry the highest level of personal responsibility. The rules range from working without a valid work permit to failure to wear specified life-protection equipment. Through the Goal Zero webpage portal, employees are able to see why an incident was deemed a violation of Life-Saving Rules and can assess how to avoid a similar situation.Our employees and contractors are consistently reminded of their roles and responsibilities through comprehensive training and realistic field exercises that focus on critical work processes and procedures. They know that the rules simply must be followed in all circumstances to eliminate serious incidents and to get us to our Goal Zero. Seven critical rules that must be followed at all times.Work with a valid work permit when required.Verify energy isolation before beginning work.Obtain authorization before entering a confined space.Obtain authorization before overriding or bypassing a safety system.Use specified life-protection equipment.Protect yourself
against a fall when working at heights.Smoke in designated 
areas only.Employee Safety TrainingAs part of our Commitment to Excellence Management System (CTEMS), we offer a robust and dynamic year-round training program to ensure operations excellence. With more than 650,000 hours of safety training in 2021 for ~6,100 refining employees, our safety training covers a wide variety of topics, including:•	Critical safety procedures, such as energy isolation and control, confined-space entry, fall protection, life-saving equipment and safe work permitting.•	Training for excellence in refining operations and mechanical integrity as well as process safety, emergency preparedness and cybersecurity.•	Training through computer-based sessions, instructor-led courses, safety meetings and daily safety talks.Contractor Safety TrainingValero’s strong safety culture includes not only employees but also contractors. Contractors have adopted the same approach to operational excellence in order to avoid incidents. In fact, contractor companies working at Valero refineries hold a total of 27 OSHA Voluntary Protection Program Stars, after voluntarily submitting to and completing stringent safety audits by OSHA inspectors, as most of Valero’s refineries have done.As outlined in our CTEMS, safety qualifications for all existing and new contractors performing work at our refineries are essential to improve safety performance, efficiency and safety compliance. Contractors hold themselves to the same level of safety training as our employees, participating in more than 1 million training hours in 2021.Pre-screening for Safety Performance and Risks •	Contractor companies are pre-screened by a third party to meet or exceed the Valero health and safety expectations. •	Contractor employees are trained initially and annually through a reciprocal contractor safety council focused on petrochemical and site-specific health and safety requirements. •	Contractors are responsible for ensuring individual craft certifications are maintained. •	Comprehensive drug/alcohol testing and disciplinary action programs are required.Operating Guidelines on Contractor Safety Management •	Contractor performance is evaluated both during and at the completion of jobs, including preplanning, permitting, auditing and post-job evaluations. •	Contractors are expected to meet or exceed Valero health and safety programs, as well as state and federal regulations.•	In 2021, we published the Conduct Guidelines for Business Partners, which detail our high ethical expectations of business partners, suppliers and vendors. These guidelines are available on our website at www.valero.com > Investors > ESG > Corporate Governance Documents.522021 Emergency ResponseWith refineries along coastlines and ethanol plants in the U.S. Midwest, Valero evaluates and prepares for physical risks to its facilities from natural disasters, including hurricanes and tornadoes, and other threats.  Amid a pandemic in 2021, Team Valero was tested by Winter Storm Uri and Hurricane Ida. While the impacts of both storms were far-reaching, our plans, preparations and response helped to mitigate the risks to people, assets, surrounding communities and the environment.A major winter and ice storm, Uri had widespread impact across the U.S. in February 2021, resulting in extensive blackouts and the worst energy infrastructure failure in the history of the state of Texas, where half of our refineries are located. Team Valero, along with business partners and contractors, executed an unprecedented multi-site response that assessed, prioritized and made critical repairs to return sites to operation as soon as possible.  In the summer of 2021, Hurricane Ida, a Category 4 hurricane, struck the Louisiana coast, affecting our St. Charles and Meraux refineries as well as causing devastation across the surrounding communities.  Once again, we put our emergency preparedness and response plans to work, and both refineries were shut down in a safe, controlled manner in advance of the hurricane landfall. After the storm, we worked to stabilize homes and provided shelter and basic needs to employees, which enabled them to focus on recovery and restart efforts. We successfully restarted both refineries within days.  First Week Response 
to Hurricane Ida: •	32 support staff at the 
refineries within 24 hours.•	Delivered $125,000 worth of toiletries and personal items for our employees and their families.•	Provided ~ 35,000 gallons of gasoline/diesel to first responders, local governments, our employees and contractors.  •	Distributed 200 generators, 200 chainsaws, 300 extension cords, 700 gas cans and two semi-trailer loads of 10-pound ice bags. •	Served ~ 9,400 meals to employees and contractors.•	Repaired 165 homes.ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT  •  53Enhancing Physical ResilienceIn the last 10 years, Valero has invested more than $14 billion of capital to sustain its operations, including turnarounds, catalysts, investments in safety, preventive equipment maintenance, environmental mitigation, and reliability and regulatory compliance. Sustaining capital is used to keep our facilities performing and to mitigate and reduce physical risks to our operations and our people, including:•	New infrastructure at raised elevation to reduce the effects of flooding.•	Upgraded critical buildings, including control rooms and employee shelters resilient to physical risks.•	Refineries designed to withstand hurricane forces, with safe shutdowns and personnel evacuations initiated in advance of severe storms.Valero’s Emergency Management Planning & ResponseOur emergency management planning and response program actively assesses potential risks posed to our people and operations, and implements solutions:•	Emergency response plans at each facility that comply with all local, state and federal regulations, and are regularly updated with third-party assessments to ensure excellence.•	Qualified emergency response teams that have built strong relationships with outside response personnel. •	Regular drills and assessments to promote response readiness, incorporating the focus of our Goal Zero program.•	Critical capital resources allocated to emergency planning and response in the strategic planning and capital budget processes to make our facilities efficient and resilient.•	Use of emerging technologies to optimize decision-making and response execution.Hurricane Preparedness Our preparedness measures include pre-hurricane season activities, as well as a five-phase process to monitor evolving conditions as the storm approaches, to provide adequate time and resources for our employees and facilities to safely prepare. See page 111 for notes regarding this page and for non-GAAP disclosures.PhasePhasePhasePhasePhase12345At the start of hurricane season, facility plans reviewed and updated, inventory and supplies restocked, begin daily monitoring for potential storms. Assess predicted storm path and potential for impact. Communicate with site(s) likely to be impacted or under threat.Activate the Corporate Emergency Operations Center and Employee Call Center. Execute site operational and contingency plans and prepare site(s) for storm impacts, including the staging of equipment from service providers. Execute shutdown, ride-out and/or evacuation plans.Initiate post-hurricane response, including the assessment of impacts on employees, the environment and surrounding communities. Implement plans for recovery and support for safe startup and return to operations. 