ABOUT THIS DOCUMENTPolicies and ProceduresThis document includes statements regarding various policies, values, standards, approaches, procedures, processes, systems, programs, initiatives, assessments, technologies, practices, and similar measures related to our operations and ESG and compliance systems (ÒPolicies and ProceduresÓ). References to Policies and Procedures in this document do not represent guarantees or promises about their efficacy or continued implementation, or any assurance that such Policies and Procedures will apply in every case. Such Policies and Procedures are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond the control of Valero and are difficult to predict, and there may be exigent circumstances, factors, or considerations that may cause implementation of other measures or exceptions in specific instances. Please see Forward-Looking Statements below. Forward-Looking StatementsThis document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, but not limited to, statements about our Policies and Procedures. You can identify forward-looking statements by words such as Òshould,Ó Òstrive,Ó Òpursue,Ó Òintend,Ó Òanticipate,Ó Òforecast,Ó Òtrack,Ó Òwould,Ó Òcontinue,Ó Òpoised,Ó Òfocused,Ó Òopportunity,Ó Òscheduled,Ó Òbelieve,Ó Òestimate,Ó Òexpect,Ó Òseek,Ó Òcould,Ó Òmay,Ó Òwill,Ó Òtargeting,Ó Ògoal,Ó Òplan,Ó or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. Forward-looking statements in this document include those relating to our 2025 and 2035 GHG emissions reduction/displacement targets, expected timing of completion of projects, future market, industry and legislative conditions, future safety performance, future operating performance and management of future risks. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or actions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond the control of Valero and are difficult to predict including, but not limited to, the effect, impact, potential duration or other implications of the uncertainties that remain with respect to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the COVID-19 pandemic, legislative or political changes, market dynamics, cyberattacks, weather events and various events arising from the foregoing. These statements are often based upon various assumptions, many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions, including examination of historical operating trends and market conditions made by the management of Valero. Although Valero believes that the assumptions were reasonable when made, because assumptions are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, which are difficult or impossible to predict and are beyond its control, Valero cannot give assurance that it will achieve or accomplish its expectations, beliefs or intentions, or that any forward-looking statements will ultimately prove to be accurate. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements contained in ValeroÕs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including ValeroÕs annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other reports available on ValeroÕs website at www.valero.com. These risks could cause the actual results, actions and Policies and Procedures of Valero to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. We do not intend to update these statements unless we are required by the securities laws to do so. Results or metrics in this document as of any date, or for any period, ending on or prior to the date of this document are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected as of any date, or for any period, ending after the date of this document.These reports and disclosures are not Òsoliciting material,Ó are not deemed filed with the SEC, and are not to be incorporated by reference into any of ValeroÕs filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date of this document and irrespective of any general incorporation language therein. Furthermore, references to our website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only.ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT  ¥  3ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT  ¥  3A LETTER
FROM
OUR CEOI am very proud of Team Valero and the work we do to advance the future of our company. Throughout the last year, our employees demonstrated resilience through safe and environmentally responsible operations for each other and our communities.  In 2021, we more than doubled the production capacity of our renewable diesel facility in Louisiana, on budget and ahead of schedule. Right now, construction is underway on a new renewable diesel plant in Texas, with an accelerated expected completion in the fourth quarter of 2022. With startup activities expected to begin in late 2024, the large-scale carbon sequestration project with BlackRock, and Navigator is also progressing on schedule. These are great initiatives that show how we are leveraging our liquid-fuels platform and operational expertise to diversify into high-growth, high-return, low-carbon projects that further strengthen our long-term competitive advantage as a leading producer of transportation fuels. These projects move us even closer to achieving our refinery greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions goals for 2025 and 2035.But we are not stopping there. We continue to explore additional innovative low-carbon opportunities, like sustainable aviation fuel, cellulosic ethanol, low-carbon hydrogen and other initiatives to decrease emissions resulting from the use of our products. Turning to the community, last year alone we generated more than $62 million for charities that improve the lives in our neighboring communities. In 2021, we partnered with nonprofit organizations and funded impactful initiatives that addressed the needs of our neighbors. Efforts were focused on providing food, shelter, workforce training and access to health care, as well as preserving the environment through biodiversity and habitat restoration and protection projects. With more than half of the members of the board of directors representing diversity in gender, race and ethnicity, our board and the entire management team continue to drive our companywide diversity and inclusion efforts. We believe this is important to attract and retain the brightest minds, who we are certain will continue advancing the future of energy and our company.We know tomorrow is built on actions we take today. We are committed to meeting the growing demand for reliable, affordable low-carbon fuels not in some distant future, but right now. We hope you enjoy learning more about ValeroÕs culture of innovation and unmatched execution in the next pages of our ESG Report. Thank you for your continued support and trust.
Joe GorderChairman and Chief Executive Officer4"We are leveraging our liquid-fuels platform and operational expertise to diversify into high-growth, high-return, low-carbon projects that further strengthen our long-term competitive advantage as a leading producer of transportation fuels." ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT  ¥  5Our BusinessThree Reporting
SegmentsRefiningWORLD'S LARGEST INDEPENDENT REFINER¥	15 petroleum refineries in the U.S., Canada and the U.K., with 3.2 million barrels per day of high-complexity throughput capacity.¥	1.2 million barrels per day of ratable wholesale supply - more than 50% of our light-product production.¥	Lowest-cost operator, producing gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and other specialty products, including petrochemicals and asphalt. ¥	Executing a viable and board-approved path to reduce and displace refinery Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 100% by 2035.Renewable DieselWORLD'S 2ND-LARGEST RENEWABLE DIESEL PRODUCER¥	Renewable diesel plant adjacent to the Valero St. Charles Refinery and a new renewable diesel plant adjacent to the Valero Port Arthur Refinery (expected 
to startup in Q4 2022).¥	Current annual production capacity: 700 million gallons of renewable diesel and 30 million gallons of renewable naphtha (used for renewable gasoline and renewable plastics). ¥	Expected annual production capacity to increase in the fourth quarter of 2022: 1.2 billion gallons of renewable diesel and 50 million gallons of renewable naphtha.¥	Up to 80% reduction in life cycle GHG emissions, compared with petroleum diesel.¥	100% compatible with existing engines and infrastructure.EthanolWORLD'S 2ND-LARGEST CORN ETHANOL PRODUCER¥	12 ethanol plants with annual production capacity of 
1.6 billion gallons of ethanol and 4.2 million tons of distillers grains.¥	High-octane, low-carbon fuel offers at least 30% reduction in GHG emissions, compared with petroleum gasoline.¥	Developing carbon sequestration projects to further reduce carbon intensity.Valero's VisionWe are committed to advancing the future of energy through innovation, ingenuity and unmatched execution.Guiding Principles 
SafetySafety is our foundation for success.EnvironmentWe are committed stewards of the environment.CommunityWe will be a good neighbor by sharing our success with the communities where we live and work through volunteerism, charitable giving and the economic support of being a good employer.EmployeesWe consider our employees a competitive advantage and our greatest asset. We foster a culture that supports diversity and inclusion, and we provide a safe, healthy and rewarding work environment with opportunities for growth.GovernanceWe view our stakeholders as partners to whom we seek to deliver operational excellence, disciplined management of capital and long-term value on a foundation of strong governance and ethical standards.GHG Emissions Targets ValeroÕs refineries are among the most efficient and are expected to be resilient according to the benchmarking analysis conducted as part of our TCFD hypothetical scenario analysis. We believe that our assets and strategies for our petroleum-based and low-carbon fuels are well positioned to make Valero a resilient company in a lower-carbon economy.In 2021, absolute improvements have reduced our global refinery Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 11.5% against our 2011 baseline (verified global refinery Scope 1 and 2 in 2021 account for 28.5 million metric tons CO2e).The growth of our low-carbon fuels production and blending have also displaced fossil fuels from less efficient refiners.  2035 GHG Emissions TargetWe are on track to achieving our 2025 target, which focuses on reducing and displacing our global refinery Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 63%. By 2035, we plan to increase that percentage to 100% through board-approved projects and carbon sequestration projects under development.2.432.34.211.1Million Metric Tons CO2e100%
Reduction10.93.72035 VLO Refinery GHG Emissions after Reductions & Displacements
(Scope 
1 & 2)2035 GHG Emissions Displaced by Global Blending of and Credits from Low-carbon Fuels2035 GHG Emissions Displaced by VLO Ethanol Production2035 GHG Emissions Reduced by Carbon Capture and StorageVLO Refinery
GHG
Emissions
in 2011
(Scope
1 & 2)
Absolute Emissions Reduction through Efficiencies
(Scope
1 & 2)2035 GHG Emissions Displaced by VLO Renewable Diesel ProductionIndependently verifiedSee pages 108, 109 and 111 for notes regarding this page.ESGAt Valero, we are committed to consistent and proactive dialogue with our stockholders, employees, neighboring communities, business partners, governments and other stakeholders. Environmental: GHG Emissions Targets*On track to reduce and displace 100% of refinery Scope 1 and 2 by 2035 with board-approved projects and carbon sequestration projects under development.Reports*¥	Third-Party Assurance of global refinery Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions.¥	2021 TCFD Report and Scenario Analysis: Scenario analysis concluded that Valero's refining portfolio would be resilient in a low-carbon marketplace. Our intent is to update this report in 2022 using the IEAÕs Net-Zero 2050 scenario. ¥	SASB Report (see pages 108 and 109).¥	CDP Questionnaire.Low-Carbon Investments In 2021, more than 70% of growth capital was deployed to low-carbon projects. Low-carbon fuels displace fossil fuels.¥	Carbon Sequestration: Large-scale CCS pipeline system in the U.S. Midwest to store carbon dioxide from eight of our ethanol plants. This project is expected to further reduce the carbon intensity of ethanol and increase its value. ¥	Renewable Diesel: Current annual production capacity of 700 million gallons of renewable diesel and 30 million gallons of renewable naphtha (used for renewable gasoline and renewable plastics). A new renewable diesel plant is expected to start up 
in Q4 2022, increasing total annual capacity to 
1.2 billion gallons of renewable diesel and 50 million gallons of renewable naphtha. ¥	Producing and Advancing:- Low-carbon hydrogen.
- Renewable propane.
- Renewable naphtha.
- Renewable arctic diesel.
- Fiber cellulosic ethanol.
- Sustainable aviation fuel (under development).Social: ¥	$62 million generated in 2021 for charitable giving to the communities where we live and work.¥	Actively supporting a formal environmental justice policy.¥	Competitive pay and benefits that reward innovation, ingenuity and excellence.¥	Hiring and promoting only 
the best, while improving the diversity of our workforce.¥	Maintaining 99%-100% pay equity ratios for gender and minority status.¥	Delivering merit and bonus payouts, and maintaining comprehensive benefits amid the pandemic.¥	Ensuring a best-in-class, inclusive work environment.¥	Including DEI metrics in the strategic portion of annual bonus.¥	Enhancing personal and professional growth and development opportunities to enable all employees to reach their full potential.¥	Publishing EEO-1 Report* on an annual basis (see page 110).  Governance: ¥	Political Disclosures and Climate-Lobbying Alignment*: Including political disclosures and a climate-lobbying alignment analysis.¥	Linking ESG, Climate Goals and Executive Compensation:¥	Energy Transition Modifier to Performance Shares: Modifier added to the executive long-term incentive program tying pay with our GHG emissions reduction target for 2025 and the deployment of growth capital to low-carbon projects.¥	ESG Component of Annual Bonus: In addition to HSE performance metrics, ESG efforts and improvements are also part of the annual bonus program.¥	Board Diversity and Refreshment: 60% of our independent directors represent diversity of either gender or race/ethnicity. ¥	Diversity for Board Nominee and Executive Officer Searches: Outside searches include diverse candidates for executive officers and board nominees. ¥	Cybersecurity and Incident Evaluation and Updates: Senior management delivers prompt and transparent update reports to the Audit Committee on matters respecting cybersecurity and IT risks. ¥	Corporate Policies: Adopted several new or updated corporate policies, including a new Conduct Guidelines for Business Partners. ¥	Enhanced Training and Communications: ValeroÕs compliance program includes mandatory training for all employees on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, a comprehensive compliance communications program and an ethics helpline and interactive website for online reporting.MORE THAN
$4.65 BILLIONINVESTED TO DATE IN OUR LOW-CARBON FUELS BUSINESSLOW-CARBON PROJECTS 
ARE HELD TO A MINIMUMAFTER-TAX IRR THRESHOLD,JUST LIKE OTHER PROJECTS.See page 111 for notes regarding this page and for non-GAAP disclosures.*These reports are produced annually.We often update our ESG reports and disclosures. The latest versions are available on our website at www.valero.com > Investors > ESG.
Upcoming ESG Disclosures¥	2022 TCFD Report with Scenario Analysis 
(IEA's Net Zero 2050).¥	Value chain analysis.¥	Political and lobbying activities, including 
a climate-lobbying analysis.