GOVERNANCE96We view our stakeholders as partners to whom we seek to deliver operational excellence, disciplined management of capital and long-term value on a foundation of strong governance and ethical standards. Our unique culture drives our company’s success and is the consistent thread that ties us all together. Along with our objective of advancing the future of transportation fuels, it is also important to reflect on the commitment we have to maintaining the highest standards of ethical behavior. Our strong corporate governance policies and practices provide accountability and responsiveness to our stockholders, employees, neighbors and other stakeholders.Our efforts have rewarded us with inclusion in several ESG indices. S&P 500 ESG IndexFTSE Russell USA ESG 
Low Carbon Select Index MSCI USA ESG
Select IndexFlexShares STOXX US ESG
Select IndexJUST Capital U.S. Large Cap Diversified IndexSSGA Gender 
Diversity IndexMorningstar Developed Markets Paris Aligned Benchmark IndexNorthern Trust ESG & Climate US Large Cap Core IndexBoard of DirectorsJoe GorderChairman of the Board and CEO, Valero Energy CorporationFred M. DiazFormer President, CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Mitsubishi Motors North America, Inc.Deborah P. MajorasFormer Chief Legal Officer and Secretary, The Procter & Gamble CompanyKimberly S. GreeneChair, CEO and President, Southern Company GasSen. Don NicklesRetired U.S. Senator (R-Okla.) and Chairman and CEO, The Nickles GroupPhilip J. PfeifferOf Counsel, Norton Rose Fulbright LLP, 
San AntonioRandall J. WeisenburgerManaging Member, Mile 26 Capital LLC; former EVP and CFO, Omnicom Group Inc.Rayford 
Wilkins, Jr.Former CEO-Diversified Businesses, AT&T Inc.10464.6 years*AVERAGE AGE44Fully
Independent
CommitteesIndependent
Directors3*Ages are as of December 31, 2021.70s60s50sOur board of directors provides responsible oversight, with four committees composed entirely of independent directors:
The Audit Committee assists the board in oversight of i) the integrity of Valero’s financial statements and public financial information; ii) Valero’s internal control over financial reporting; iii) Valero’s internal audit function; iv) compliance with legal and regulatory requirements with the potential to impact Valero’s financial statements or accounting policies; v) Valero’s risk assessment and risk management policies; vi) Valero’s initiatives and strategies respecting cybersecurity and IT risks; and vii) the global compliance program.The Human Resources and Compensation Committee, renamed in 2022, assists the board in oversight of Valero’s compensation and talent management programs, including initiatives and strategies in the areas of DEI, human capital and leadership development, as well as succession planning for our CEO and other senior executives. The committee regularly assesses our compensation programs to ensure that they align with the long-term interests of stockholders and are effective in retaining a talented workforce. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, renamed in 2022, assists the board in its oversight responsibilities with respect to corporate governance risks, including those concerning governance policies and practices such as related-party transactions. The committee is responsible for identifying and recommending individuals qualified to become directors, overseeing annual performance self-evaluations, and developing and maintaining Valero’s new director orientation and director continuing education programs. The Sustainability and Public Policy Committee was created in 2022 to further enhance the board’s oversight structure and efforts with respect to i) ESG; ii) sustainability and climate-related risks and opportunities; iii) HSE matters; iv) corporate responsibility and reputation management; v) social, community and public policy initiatives; vi) political and lobbying activities; and vii) compliance with legal and regulatory requirements for the operations of the company.Strong Corporate Governance The Chief Compliance Officer oversees our overall compliance efforts, and has the authority to report and communicate directly with the Audit Committee. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics mirrors what our company stands for, reinforcing our commitment to act with integrity toward Each Other, our Shareholders, the Marketplace and our Business Partners. Our corporate governance policies guide us as we conduct business in a fair, compliant, ethical and honest way. In 2021, our employees received more than 643,000 aggregate hours of training in compliance-related and other matters, including conduct and ethics, helpline reporting, anti-bribery, data privacy, human rights and information security. We provide employees, directors, business partners and others an external “Ethics Helpline” to address questions or report concerns about suspected or known unethical behavior. All reports to the helpline or otherwise are fully investigated, are confidential, can remain anonymous, and can be made without fear of dismissal or retaliation. Governance policies including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Corporate Governance Guidelines; Policy on Political Contributions, Lobbying and Trade Associations; Human Rights Policy; Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy; our Conduct Guidelines for Business Partners and other policies are published on our website at www.valero.com > Investors > ESG > Corporate Governance Documents.Comprehensive Liquid Fuels StrategyWe are working to advance the future of energy with capital discipline, innovation and unmatched execution. We support our commitment to stockholder returns with our comprehensive liquid fuels strategy that drives economic growth projects and provides a viable path to an energy transition.H. Paulett EberhartChair and CEO, 
HMS Ventures1Eric D. MullinsChairman and CEO, 
Lime Rock Resources2Robert A. ProfusekPartner and Practice Leader, Global Mergers and Acquisitions, 
Jones Day4 new directorsSINCE 2016Diversity of Gender
or Race/Ethnicity443311Race/EthnicityGender3TOTAL: 6/11> 11yrs<6 yrs7-10 yrs43Valero’s energy strategy is a priority and focus for the full board. In fact, our energy transition strategy was the key topic at our annual strategic planning meeting in 2021, which lasted three days and featured presentations from outside third-party experts on climate, liquid fuels, energy transition and policy matters.“An ethical workplace doesn’t ‘just happen.’ It takes consistent hard work and commitment from all of us. We also expect our business partners and individuals working on our behalf to be guided by these standards.” - Joe Gorder, Chairman and CEOExecutiveCOMPENSATION Alignment of Executive Pay with Company Performance and Long-term Stockholder Value Creation Link superior company performance and executive pay. Link ESG and 
climate-related goals and executive pay. Alignment of interests of executives and stockholders. Balance of compensation over short- and long-term periods. Retention of top executive talent. Capital 
DISCIPLINE Demonstrated
Commitment to
Stockholders Disciplined capital allocation with solid free cash flow and returns to stockholders across margin cycles. Delivered on our target payout ratio of 40% to 50% of adjusted net cash provided by operating activities. Operations Unmatched Execution with a Proven History of Operational Excellence Safe, reliable, responsible operations have driven higher profitability and 
lower volatility.  The lowest-cost operator among peer group while maintaining first-quartile operating performance.  Applying liquid fuels manufacturing expertise to optimize our low-carbon fuels businesses. Earnings GROWTH Growth
Through
Innovation Growth projects focused on operating cost control, market expansion and margin improvement.  Leveraging our global liquid fuels platform to expand our long-term competitive advantage with investments in economic low-carbon projects.  Have applied a minimum after-tax internal rate of return (IRR) hurdle rate for projects. See page 111 for notes regarding this page and for non-GAAP disclosures. Linkage of Executive Compensation and ESG and Climate Change MetricsAnnual Bonus Plan Valero has historically included health, safety and environmental (HSE) performance measures as part of the metrics of its annual bonus program. In 2020, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee approved a modification to our annual bonus program to also include ESG efforts and improvements, which contain multiple objectives.Operational Component, includes a HSE component weighted at 13.33%.Strategic Component, weighted at 20%, includes: •	ESG efforts and improvements (sustainability, environmental stewardship, diversity and inclusion, compliance and corporate citizenship/community).•	Operational excellence (execution of capital projects, margin improvement and market expansion, and cost management and expense control).•	Disciplined use of capital (balanced utilization of sustaining and growth capital vs. target).•	Organizational excellence (innovation, public policy and leadership development).•	Returns to stockholders (return cash to stockholders through dividends and stock buybacks).Long-term Incentive Program In 2021, our Human Resources and Compensation Committee strengthened the ties between executive compensation and ESG priorities through the addition of an energy transition modifier to our long-term incentive program, tying executive compensation with our publicly disclosed GHG emissions reduction/displacement target for 2025 and the deployment of capital to low-carbon projects and initiatives.Political 
Engagement We believe that constructive engagement in the political system serves the best interests of our stockholders, employees, neighbors and other stakeholders. In 2021, Valero enhanced its disclosures on political engagement, including board oversight, political participation and advocacy through trade associations. In addition, the company conducted a review of climate lobbying activities, which found that the relevant trade associations were substantially aligned with, or were in the process of aligning with, Valero’s vision of providing affordable and sustainable energy, while reducing GHG emissions. For more information on political engagement, visit our website at www.valero.com > Investors > ESG > Political Engagement.Stakeholder EngagementOur efforts to engage with stakeholders follow a “review, plan, engage and analyze and respond” cycle, with the following characteristics:
Proactive Ongoing engagement with stakeholders is important to us. Along with responding to inquiries, we utilize a proactive program that seeks robust communication. Consistent DialogueAs part of our engagement efforts, we value our stakeholders’ views, and their input is important to us. We provide management and the board with insight on issues and initiatives that are priorities for our stakeholders. Process By following our engagement process, we have built relationships and created meaningful interactions. Assessment We are constantly looking for ways to improve our engagement process to reflect and include stakeholder needs and business strategies.Stockholders With our stockholders, we aim to maintain an open and consistent dialogue throughout the year to respond to their priorities and receive their feedback on different matters. Indigenous TribesWe work with indigenous tribes to preserve sites with biodiverse, historical, cultural and spiritual significance. For instance, during the construction of the Diamond Pipeline in Oklahoma and Arkansas, 23 indigenous communities were contacted to participate in the permitting process. After a consultation process, more than 200 locations were identified to require tribal and archaeological surveying along the 440-mile route.NeighborsIn community engagement, our environmental justice policy has led our efforts aiming to treat our fence-line neighbors fairly, regardless of race, color, national origin, culture or income. We work to ensure our neighbors have an opportunity to understand our proposed activities and to provide them with a meaningful opportunity to have their concerns heard, with the goal of providing them with greater comfort in our operations.Government OfficialsAt local, state and federal levels, we work closely with government officials to share information about our business and understand public policies. Government officials are invited to our refineries and plants to learn about our operations, products and contributions, and their impact on the communities. Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs) Valero is committed to constructive dialogue with NGOs to better understand and address their concerns. For instance, as part the permitting of the coker project in our refinery in Port Arthur, Texas, we engaged with multiple NGOs in the area to provide them with details on this capital project, including the improvement of efficiency and the strengthening of the refinery to ensure economic development to the area for years to come. Industry and Business PartnersValero encourages responsible business development and works with industry and business partners to see that environmental, employee, social, health, governance and ethical concerns are addressed.Diversity search policies are in place that require that the initial list of candidates include diverse candidates for both board nominees and external searches for executive officers. For more information, visit our website at 
www.valero.com > Investors > ESG > Corporate Governance Documents.Our engagement program includes dialogue with stakeholders ranging from stockholders and regulatory agencies to community organizers. In 2021, Valero became a founding business member of the Corporate Partners for Racial Equity with a mission of improving racial equity in the San Antonio area. The initiative raised more than $13.5 million to support three focus areas: Equitable Education, Economic Opportunity, and Community Safety and Justice.Area Initiatives Equitable Education •	Tutoring programs and STEM-related skills.•	Career and skill development opportunities that lead to living wage jobs. •	Digital inclusion to provide affordable access to quality technology and connectivity. Economic Opportunity •	Supplier diversity programs. •	Robust services and training to small businesses. •	Accelerate dual-generation efforts, including subsidizing early childhood education and adult education, such as financial coaching, workforce training, certification programs, digital literacy programs, etc.  Safety and 
Justice •	Wraparound services and violence prevention.•	Internships for justice-involved youth and young adults to advance fair-chance hiring and create pathways for successful community reintegration. JUST Capital’s 2022 rankings of America’s largest publicly traded companies has Valero ranked 4th of 19
Oil & Gas companies,recognizing our efforts in driving positive change on pressing social issues.Supply Chain and Business PartnersIn 2021, Valero spent approximately $1.8 billion on sustaining and growth projects. Our business partners are critical to our success and reliability. We work collaboratively to promote optimal performance and mutual success by embracing the highest standards of responsible operations. With our Conduct Guidelines for Business Partners, we reflect our expectations of high ethical standards and the unwavering requirement to act with integrity. We expect our business partners to commit to uphold Valero’s reputation as a company with high standards of business ethics and conduct, including in the following areas:•	Anti-bribery and anti-corruption.•	Fair employment practices.•	Human rights.•	Antitrust.•	Gifts and entertainment.•	Information security.•	Conflicts of interest.•	Government contracting.•	Intellectual property.•	Corporate recordkeeping.•	Small business engagement.•	Insider trading.•	Data privacy.•	Health, safety and environmental.•	International trade regulations.We have processes in place to vet our business partners to determine their compliance. Our business partners are critical to our success and reliability, and we work collaboratively with them to promote optimal performance and mutual success with safety and security protocols and programs in connection with the services they provide. At the same time, we require our business partners to comply with all federal, state and local laws, and rules, regulations, codes and ordinances. They are accountable for complying with the expectations of our policies and procedures, including, but not limited to, those related to health, safety and the environment, respect for human rights and employee rights, conflicts of interest, and anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Moreover, we have reflected these requirements and expectations in our Conduct Guidelines for Business Partners, published in 2021.Institutional Investor Magazine Names Valero ‘Most Honored,’ with the CEO and CFO Among Top Named ExecutivesFor the sixth year in a row, Institutional Investor magazine named Valero among its “Most Honored Companies,” based on results across several categories of its “2022 All-America Executive Team” rankings. Joe Gorder, Valero Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ranked Best CEO by the sell-side analysts in the integrated oil sector. Jason Fraser, Valero Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, also ranked among top CFOs in the integrated oil sector. Homer Bhullar, Valero Vice President of Investor Relations and Finance, ranked Best IR professional by sell-side analysts in the integrated oil sector. Valero ranked among top-two overall (buy-side and sell-side analysts combined) for Best IR Team, IR Program, ESG, and Crisis Management of COVID-19 categories.The publication determined the rankings from votes of nearly 3,500 money managers, sell-side researchers and buy-side analysts, who were asked to rate the companies they believe demonstrate excellence in certain categories or performance attributes. Companies that earn two or more top-three appearances in the seven distinct ranking categories are recognized as a “Most Honored Company.” Out of over 1,500 companies receiving votes, less than 10% earned the “Most Honored” distinction.See page 111 for notes regarding this page and for non-GAAP disclosures.Cybersecurity In 2022, the Audit Committee amended its charter to formalize its oversight responsibilities concerning Valero’s initiatives and strategies respecting cybersecurity and IT risks. At least once annually, our Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer and the head of our Internal Audit team provide a report to the Audit Committee on Valero’s information security operations, structure and framework; various cyber and IT security metrics; Valero’s cybersecurity management program, improvement efforts and future projects; and Valero’s governance and assessments related to cyber and IT security.