GOVERNANCEWe view our stakeholders as partners to whom we seek to deliver operational excellence, disciplined management of capital and long-term value on a foundation of strong governance and ethical standards.Our unique culture drives our company’s success and is the consistent thread that ties us all together. Along with our objective of advancing the future of transportation fuels, it is also important to reflect on the commitment we have to maintaining the highest standards of ethical behavior. Our strong corporate governance policies and practices provide accountability and responsiveness to our stockholders, employees, neighbors and other stakeholders. BOARD OF DIRECTORSJoe GorderChairman of the Board and CEO, Valero Energy CorporationH. Paulett EberhartChair and CEO, 
HMS VenturesDeborah P. MajorasChief Legal Officer and Secretary, The Procter & Gamble CompanyEric D. MullinsChairman and CEO, 
Lime Rock ResourcesPhilip J. PfeifferOf Counsel, Norton Rose Fulbright LLP, 
San AntonioRobert A. ProfusekPartner and Practice Leader, Global Mergers and Acquisitions, 
Jones DayRandall J. WeisenburgerManaging Member, Mile 26 Capital LLC; former EVP and CFO, Omnicom Group Inc.Rayford 
Wilkins, Jr.Former CEO-Diversified Businesses, AT&T Inc.3 of 11DIRECTORS ARE WOMEN103MEMBERS
ARE
INDEPENDENTFULLY
INDEPENDENTCOMMITTEES2 of 11DIRECTORS ARE RACIALLY DIVERSEOur board of directors provides responsible oversight with three committees composed of independent directors: Kimberly S. GreeneChair, CEO and President, Southern Company Gas11.	The Audit Committee assists the board in oversight of the integrity of Valero’s financial statements and public financial information, the qualifications and independence of Valero’s independent auditor, the performance of Valero’s internal audit function and independent auditors, Valero’s cybersecurity and information technology risks, and Valero’s global compliance functions.
2.	The Compensation Committee reviews and reports to the board on matters related to compensation programs, policies and strategies, including executive compensation. The committee also conducts reviews of director compensation, reviews and reports on management succession planning, and exercises oversight over initiatives and strategies in the areas of diversity, inclusion and human capital. 
3.	The Nominating/Governance and Public Policy Committee assists the board in its oversight responsibilities with respect to corporate governance, board membership, and ESG matters, including climate-related risks and opportunities; health, safety and environmental performance and compliance; public policy; political contributions; lobbying activities; and corporate responsibility.Sen. Don NicklesRetired U.S. Senator (R-Okla.) and Chairman and CEO, The Nickles Group2Stephen M. WatersManaging Partner, Compass Partners Capital and Compass Partners Advisers LLP; former CEO, Compass Partners European Equity Fund365 yearsAVERAGE AGE9
yearsAVERAGE TENURE50s60s70s11-15 yrs7-10 yrs<6 yrsSTRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCEOur Code of Business Conduct and Ethics mirrors what our company stands for, reinforcing our commitment to act with integrity toward Each Other, our Shareholders, the Marketplace and our Business Partners. Our Code, our company policies and procedures guide us as we conduct business in a fair, compliant, ethical and honest way. Valero’s Audit Committee oversees our global compliance function.In 2020, our employees received more than 605,000 hours of training in compliance-related matters, including conduct and ethics, reporting hotline, anti-bribery, data privacy, emergency preparedness, human rights, information security and others.We provide employees, directors, business partners and others a confidential external Ethics Helpline to address questions or report concerns about suspected or known unethical behavior. All reports to the helpline or otherwise are fully investigated, can remain anonymous, and can be made without fear of dismissal or retaliation.Governance policies including the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Corporate Governance Guidelines; Policy on Political Contributions, Lobbying and Trade Associations; Human Rights Policy; Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy; and other policies and guidelines can be found at our website in the Investors section under ESG/Corporate Governance.Our revised Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy follows our five-point compliance framework, including:Governance & Reporting: The Chief Compliance Officer oversees our overall compliance efforts, including the corporate anti-bribery and anti-corruption program, and has the authority to report and communicate directly with the Audit Committee of the board.Policies & Procedures: We maintain several company policies and procedures that speak to our commitments to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, Gifts and Entertainment Policy, and Anti-Money Laundering Policy, in addition to several other key documents.Communications & Training: We provide periodic extensive training on anti-bribery and anti-corruption to all employees, officers, directors, agents and representatives of the company. Training is delivered by computer-based courses, with instructors or one-on-one settings. Risk Assessments: Under the direction of the Compliance Department, we conduct risk assessments of bribery and corruption risks facing our business, incorporating any identified risks into our policies and overall program oversight. We also regularly monitor bribery and corruption risks and trends faced by others, as well as regulatory matters, in an effort to update our policies and training accordingly.Testing and Investigation: Our Internal Audit Department conducts periodic reviews of compliance with Valero’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, and related laws and regulations. In addition, our Compliance Department’s Global Investigation Team performs investigations of potential anti-bribery or anti-corruption at the direction of our compliance counsel.12345“Our culture, shared values and commitment to integrity contribute to our success. I take pride in the reputation for honesty and integrity that Team Valero has earned with our regulators, stakeholders and business partners.”COMPREHENSIVE LIQUID FUELS STRATEGYWe are working to advance the future of energy with capital discipline, innovation and unmatched execution. We support our commitment to stockholder returns with our comprehensive liquid fuels strategy that drives economic growth projects and provides a viable path to an energy transition. EARNINGS GROWTH Growth
Through
Innovation Growth projects focused on operating cost control, market expansion and margin improvement Leveraging our global liquid fuels platform to expand our long-term competitive advantage with investments in economic low-carbon projects 25% after-tax IRR hurdle
rate for projects OPERATIONS Unmatched Execution with a Proven History of Operational Excellence Safe, reliable, environmentally responsible operations have driven higher profitability
and lower volatility  The lowest-cost operator among peer group while maintaining first-quartile operating performance Applying liquid fuels manufacturing expertise to optimize our renewable
fuels businesses CAPITAL DISCIPLINE Demonstrated
Commitment to
Stockholders Disciplined capital allocation with solid free cash flow and returns to stockholders
across margin cycles Delivered on our 
target payout ratio of
40% to 50% Joe GorderCHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERALIGNMENT OF EXECUTIVE PAY WITH
COMPANY PERFORMANCE AND LONG-TERM 
STOCKHOLDER VALUE CREATIONValero’s compensation philosophy tightly links superior company performance and executive pay, aligns interests of executives and stockholders, manages risk and adopts best practices in executive pay, balances compensation over short- and long-term periods and facilitates retention of top executive talent.Because Valero entered this economic downturn in a position of strength, our team was thorough, decisive and swift in our operational, financial and community support response.COVID-19 IMPACT ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATIONThe onset of the global COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic downturn severely disrupted our fuels manufacturing and marketing business. We faced operational and financial challenges due to the significant drop in demand for our products. Due to our financial stability, no permanent changes or temporary adjustments were made in 2020 to Valero’s executive pay programs and benefits, incentive pay outcomes or executive salaries as a result of COVID-19.The executive compensation program is composed of base salary, our annual bonus plan and our long-term incentive program. This design emphasizes variable incentive pay such that an executive’s pay is significantly dependent upon the achievement of both absolute and relative performance measures.Maintained dividend rate of $0.98/share throughout pandemic. No company-wide furloughs, layoffs or pay/benefit reductions. Proceeded with annual salary review program for all employees. No adjustments were made to performance goals or metrics under our executive incentive programs, despite the substantial impact of the pandemic on the financial results that drive these incentive opportunities. No positive discretion adjustments were made for incentive pay outcomes (performance shares and annual incentive bonus). The 2020 annual long-term incentive awards to executives occurred in February 2020, in advance of the significant drop in Valero’s share price associated with the economic downturn – avoiding “windfall” share count awards. Maintained the basic structure of our executive incentive arrangements for 2021, preserving continuity in the relationship between pay and performance over time. ESG AND CLIMATE CHANGE IN EXECUTIVE COMPENSATIONAfter recent updates, both the short-term and long-term components of the executive compensation program have been linked to projects that expand the production of lower carbon products such as renewable diesel and sustainable aviation fuel; projects that reduce the carbon intensity of existing products, such as carbon capture and storage in ethanol; and projects that alter the product yield of Valero’s facilities to better match evolving customer demand. In 2020, we spent approximately $2 billion on sustaining and growth projects. Our business partners are critical to our success and reliability and we work collaboratively with them to promote optimal performance and mutual success. We have processes in place to vet our business partners to determine their compliance with safety and security protocols and programs in connection with the services they provide. At the same time, we require our business partners to comply with all federal, state and local laws, and rules, regulations, codes and ordinances. They must also comply with the expectations of our policies and procedures, including, but not limited to, those related to health, safety, the environment, respect for human rights and employee rights, conflicts of interest, and anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Moreover, we intend to reflect these requirements and expectations in a code of conduct guidelines for business partners in 2021.Financial Performance Goal (EPS)Strategic
Component20%Health, Safety 
and
EnvironmentANNUAL BONUS PLANReaching our GHG emissions reduction/offset target is linked to refining efficiencies and offsets generated by low-carbon fuels. The all-employee annual bonus plan includes metrics associated with this effort in the short-term as follows: Mechanical
AvailabilityRefining
OpexFinancial40%Operational40%Strategic20%Operational ComponentIn 2021, the health, safety and environmental metric consists of 14 separately weighted metrics, including environmental scorecard incidents, process safety incidents and reliability events.Strategic Component•	ESG efforts and improvements (sustainability and environmental stewardship)•	Operational excellence (execution of capital projects, margin improvement and market expansion)•	Disciplined use of capital (balanced utilization of sustaining and growth capital vs. target)•	Organizational excellence (innovation and public policy)LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PROGRAM In 2021, the Compensation Committee established that in addition to relative Total Shareholder Return performance, the performance shares component of the long-term incentives for executives was modified to include an Energy Transition performance measure. When evaluating the Energy Transition performance measure, the Compensation Committee will consider and assess Valero’s performance in:(i) annual progress versus the publicly disclosed 2025 GHG emissions reduction/offset target; and(ii) the percentage of growth capital expenditures deployed for low-carbon initiatives versus an annual target.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our efforts to engage with stakeholders follow a “review, plan, engage, and analyze and respond” cycle, with the following highlights:PLANPROACTIVE: Ongoing engagement with stakeholders is important to us. Besides responding to inquiries, we established a proactive program that seeks robust communication. 
CONSISTENT DIALOGUE:As part of our engagement efforts, we value our stakeholders’ views and their input is important to us. We provide management and the board of directors with insights on issues and initiatives that are priorities for our stakeholders.
PROCESS: By following our engagement process, we have built relationships and created meaningful interactions.
ASSESSMENT:We are constantly looking for ways to improve our engagement process to reflect and include stakeholder needs and business strategies.REVIEWENGAGEANALYZE
&
RESPONDPOLITICAL ENGAGEMENT We believe that constructive participation in the political process is in the best interests of our stockholders, employees, neighbors and other stakeholders. We are committed to complying with all applicable local, state and federal regulations. Our Policy on Political Contributions, Lobbying and Trade Associations describes our activities and reporting on this subject. In 2021, Valero will be conducting a review of climate lobbying activities and will publish a report on alignment and spending. For more information on political engagement, visit our website at www.valero.com > 
Investors > ESG.SUPPLY CHAIN AND BUSINESS PARTNERSOur business partners See page 109 for notes regarding this page.INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR AGAIN NAMES VALERO 
‘MOST HONORED,’ GORDER TOP CEOFor a fifth consecutive year, Institutional Investor magazine named Valero among its “Most Honored Companies,” based on results across several categories of its “2021 All-America Executive Team” rankings. Joe Gorder, Valero Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ranked Best CEO by the sell-side in the integrated oil sector. The publication determined the rankings from votes of nearly 3,500 money managers, sell-side researchers and buy-side analysts. Valero was ranked No. 1 overall in the Best IR Team and Financial Material ESG Disclosures categories in the integrated oil sector. The Financial Material ESG Disclosures category was new in 2020, highlighting our timing to market, consistency and
granularity of 
information. Overall top-2 rankings in the integrated oil sector also went to Homer Bhullar, Vice President Investor Relations and Finance, Best IR Professional category; and in a new category this year, Communication of Strategy and Risk Management Amid COVID-19. For best IR category, Valero’s credibility, responsiveness and conference-call effectiveness were noted. Institutional Investor asked portfolio managers and analysts at securities and research firms to rate companies that they believe demonstrate excellence in certain IR characteristics or performance attributes.Companies that earn two or more top-three appearances in the seven distinct ranking categories are recognized as a “Most Honored Company.” Out of over 1,500 companies receiving votes, less than 10% earned the “Most Honored” distinction.Valero was ranked No. 1 overall in the Best IR Team and Financial Material ESG Disclosures categories in the integrated oil sector.Joe GorderCHAIRMAN AND
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERHomer BhullarVICE PRESIDENT INVESTOR RELATIONS
AND FINANCE 