We consider our employees
a competitive advantage and our greatest asset. We foster a culture that supports diversity and inclusion, and provide a safe, healthy and rewarding work environment with opportunities for growth.Valero is proud to enlist the world’s best and brightest engineers, operators and business professionals to drive exceptional results for our company and our industry. As a global leader in refining and renewable products, Valero is dedicated to safety, excellence and accountability at all times. As an employer of choice, Valero is also dedicated to caring for our company’s greatest asset – our employees. The well-being of every Team Valero member is our highest priority, from overall health and wellness to a challenging, rewarding career.Forbes magazine recognized Valero as one of “America’s Best Large Employers,” and as the highest-ranked independent refiner on the list.fueling exceptional futuresTeam Valero’s deeply rooted culture is a key component of generating incredible results. Valero continually works to cultivate teams that are inclusive and results-driven, and celebrate every employee’s strengths and ideas.To that end, Valero recently launched its 
“Fueling Exceptional Futures” recruitment brand.Valero’s comprehensive employee programs 
and services are designed to elevate the employee experience, as talented individuals bring their best to work each day. They foster excellence. They work safely and work hard. 
They make a difference. And they believe in 
the power of teamwork.Find out more, at www.valero.com/Careers.diversity and inclusionDiversity at Valero is more than workforce demographics. Inclusion is more than placing diverse employees on teams. It is the collection of diverse ideas, perspectives and values that creates an exceptional employee experience. Valero recognizes the value and benefits of a diverse workforce, and the impact that comes from truly inclusive teams. It is more than doing the right thing. Our integrated approach and respect for all viewpoints allows us to build the best teams 
in the energy industry.The most meaningful and important way to improve diversity and inclusion at any company is through leadership. From our board of directors to executive management across our great company, this support is visible at Valero. Beyond compliance and beyond metrics, it is a commitment that contributes to a winning team.To see Valero’s official Diversity & Inclusion statement, visit www.valero.com/Careers.employee and family wellnessExceptional employees deserve equally exceptional support. Total Wellness for employees and families means a commitment to competitive pay, benefits and personal development throughout their careers.Valero’s Total Wellness program begins and ends with employees in mind. Highlights of U.S.-based benefits (subject to availability by work location and eligibility):•	Competitive pay and performance management•	Comprehensive health care and wellness programs•	Comprehensive wellness assessments•	Financial planning and education•	Company 401(k) matching program•	Company-sponsored pension plan•	Discretionary annual bonus award program•	Paid childbirth leave and parental leave•	On-site employee wellness centers•	On-site family wellness clinic•	Tuition reimbursement program•	Fitness center access or stipend•	On-site child care center or subsidy•	Employee recognition programsAmerica’s
Best Large EmployersValero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  43valero’s culture is rooted in six key values1SafetySafety is the foundation of success at Valero, and ensures our company’s greatest assets – employees – are protected. From exceptional workplace safety to positive health and wellness routines, employees are encouraged to promote and demonstrate their commitment to safety at all times.Icon2AccountabilityAt Valero, employees make a personal choice to take ownership of performance. Creating an environment of accountability not only helps achieve company goals but also results in increased employee performance. 3TeamworkStrong teams are the drivers of a successful organization. Valero believes that great teamwork and strong relationships are built through respectful collaboration, the sharing of diverse ideas and perspectives, and strong communication.ExcellenceValero employees treat every day like game day – working hard; staying focused, disciplined and positive; and continually striving to meet objectives that keep all of Team Valero energized and performing at their best.45Do The Right ThingValero’s commitment to integrity means doing the right thing for the right reason, regardless of the circumstances. Employees are trustworthy and continually set positive examples, which leads to open, honest and sincere communication.6CommunitiesPromoting Team Valero’s involvement in volunteerism supports our company’s longstanding commitment and culture of sharing our success with the communities in which we live and work.Women In Our Global WorkforceWorkforce
19%Professional
29%Supervision
17%Minorities In Our U.S. WorkforceWorkforce
34%Professional
33%Supervision
23%Valero exceeds the
U.S. petroleum refining
industry demographics for
women and minorities.**Source: as reported by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.46“If we encourage one more girl to choose a career in STEM, then we have accomplished what we set out to do.”Students participate in the Valero After School STEM Club at the Pembroke refinery.Valero’s STEM Support Aimed at Inclusion, Workforce of the FutureValero’s support of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) programs demonstrates its integration of skill/leadership development, recruiting, diversity and inclusion, and employee engagement.The company’s University Recruiting, E-Learning and Engineering groups partnered in 2018 to create an inspiring video highlighting women in engineering at Valero, as part of its focus on diversity in the workforce.The video was designed to use in college campus presentations with student organizations such as the Society of Women Engineers, outreach events for high school students and the encouragement of women to consider STEM majors and spark interest in the energy industry.“I love what I do at Valero and hope other women can see the great things they can achieve at Valero through this video,” said Karen Muehlbauer, Director-Environmental and Safety Affairs at Valero’s Pembroke refinery in Wales. “Also, if we encourage one more girl to choose a career in STEM, then we have accomplished what we set out to do.”With an eye toward building Valero’s future workforce, the company is a strong supporter of STEM events for school children.The Pembroke refinery sponsors a Valero After School STEM Club, in conjunction with local colleges, in which ninth-grade students take 10-week sessions at the schools, from electronics to chemistry workshops, and then participate in a “finals day” competition at the refinery.The Meraux refinery in Louisiana sponsors an Invention Convention, a competition among fifth-graders inventing new items or improving upon existing ones to solve real-life problems.And Valero supports the CORE4 STEM EXPO for San Antonio inner-city, middle-school students, engaging them in activities including a supply-chain puzzle that shows students the process of refining crude oil to finished product.Valero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  47Valero employees (left photo) provided input in developing maternity coveralls, with designer Jamie Glas, middle in light blue. The group’s two expectant mothers (right photo), engineers Rachel Dickerson, left, and Mariana Williamson, modeled prototypes. Glas checked Williamson’s measurements (middle photo).Maternity Coveralls Project
Advances Safety, Excellence
for Women in EnergyAs part of Valero’s commitment to safety and excellence at work, significant resources, training and attention are given to ensure employees have the tools they need to perform well – starting with what they wear.For women in the industry, particularly expectant mothers, proper fit and flexibility in protective coveralls go hand-in-hand with safety. Coveralls that expand easily and properly in the midsection, without compromising fit from head to toe, would ensure comfort and functionality for female operators and engineers at all stages of life. In the fall of 2018, Valero partnered with Houston-based engineer Jamie Glas of HauteWork to create just that. This groundbreaking project is fueling important advancements for the industry while reinforcing Valero’s safety and excellence values.Employee focus groups at Valero’s St. Charles and Meraux refineries have created hope that flexible, 
fit-friendly maternity coveralls soon could expand the limited options available.“Seeing that Valero is taking the initiative in this is really something I’m proud of,” said Rachel Dickerson, Associate Process Engineer at the 
St. Charles refinery. “This project gives the message that the industry is thinking about us, and does consider our role in the workplace.”Mariana Williamson, Superintendent-Turnaround Planning at Meraux, said her own needs during her pregnancy, plus her engineer’s background, stirred her passion for the project.“It’s amazing that Valero is trying to fill this need,” Williamson said. “It’s a commitment that the company has made toward diversity, and we want to give women the tools they need to be able to carry on their roles in conjunction with their pregnancies.“Valero and our entire industry can benefit from this effort,” she said. “No woman in the future will have to even wonder, ‘What will I do when I am pregnant? How will I be able to carry on my responsibilities?’ I hope our efforts contribute toward that very important solution.”“Seeing that Valero is taking
the initiative in this is really
something that I’m proud of.”