We will be a good neighbor by sharing our success with the communities where we live and work through volunteerism, charitable giving and the economic support of being a good employer.
Valero and the Valero Energy Foundation are committed to improving the quality of life in communities where we live and work.We are proud that Valero has been named to the Civic 50 list by Points of Light as one of America’s most community-minded companies – the top energy company on the list – each time since 2013.By channeling our charitable actions into education, health care, basic needs and civic programs, we work to make a positive impact in our communities.
charitable givingvolunteerismValero has maintained employee-led Volunteer Councils at each of its locations since 1983, building strong bonds with many local civic organizations and charities where Valero has a presence.Volunteering remains a vital aspect of Valero’s culture, with activities ranging from support of food banks and organizations like Habitat for Humanity to service on nonprofit boards.economic supportAnother way we share our success with the communities where we live and work is through the economic support of being a good employer. Valero has a significant economic impact on the communities and governments where it operates, with expenditures multiplying many times over.Valero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  31United Way Day of Caring
The 2018 headquarters United Way Day of Caring event at San Antonio homeless shelter Haven for Hope drew 300 Valero Volunteers who provided $95,000 worth of labor to beautify the grounds. Valero additionally presented a check for $45,000 benefiting the shelter.Valero continues to be a
strong supporter of United Way.$55.6 milliontotal generated
for worthy
charities through
direct donations
or fundraising
in 2018We are a Pacesetter organization and among the largest corporate contributors
to United Way chapters throughout
our communities.$14.7 million in U.S. employee pledges, projected company match and fundraising, for donations in 201911% increase 
from previous year$1,138 in employee U.S. per-capita pledges$870,000*Canada company and employee gifts to
Centraide/United Way*Converted from Canadian dollarsEmployees at the Memphis refinery take part in a United Way Day of Caring at a local school.3232More than $12.5 million raised in 2018from Valero Texas Open, plus Benefit for Children events companywideThe Valero Texas Open plus Benefit for Children golf tournaments or sporting clays events in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom support charities where Valero has major operations. As Valero invests in community initiatives that have strategic and sustainable impact, the company made a major statement in extending its title sponsorship of the combined Valero Texas Open and Benefit for Children in the U.S. another 10 years, through 2028. Employees help select the community charities to receive funding. The event is among the largest fundraisers on the PGA Tour, raising $12 million in 2018 in net proceeds to children’s and other charities. Separate Benefit for Children events in Canada and the U.K. added another $577,000.$138million
total through 2018500+charities~900employee
volunteers~10
thousand
volunteer hoursValero Senior Vice President-Alternative Fuels Martin Parrish, Company Chair of the 2018 Valero Texas Open
and Benefit for Children, appears with tourney champion Andrew Landry and deserving children.$340
thousand*
raised by Benefit for Children in Canada
in 2018$890
thousand*
total raised for children’s charities
in the U.K.
over 5 years$237
thousand*
raised by the Valero Benefit for Children Golf Classic in the
U.K. in 2018$5
million*
total raised for children’s charities throughout Quebec, Ontario and the Atlantic provinces over 14 years*Converted from Canadian dollars*Converted from pounds“I am beyond grateful to Valero for investing so much support in making sure students like myself know the educational options
that are out there.”Valero Grant Making College Possible for Economically Disadvantaged StudentsGrowing up in one of San Antonio’s most impoverished neighborhoods, Jennifer Fuentes thought college was out of reach.Then came a landmark five-year, $8.4 million grant from the Valero Energy Foundation to the San Antonio Independent School District that enabled her to become the first of 10 siblings to attend college. Not only that, but graduates of her former district now are enrolling in college at an increasing rate that is projected to exceed the state average for economically disadvantaged students.Valero’s grant is going to the SAISD Foundation to fund the district’s “Pipeline for College Success” program.The program gave Fuentes, a student at Texas Tech University, exposure to college through a Spring Break trip while still in high school, help in applying for and getting accepted into college and even continuing support from district personnel.“I am beyond grateful to Valero for investing so much support in making sure students like myself know the educational options that are out there,” Fuentes said.The program provides two full-time “college-bound advisors” at seven district high schools to work with the students. Fuentes attended the Spring Break College Tour of colleges and universities in the Midwest, which, she said, “made college comfortable – not as scary. It made college real for me.”In all, 470 SAISD students participated in college tours during the 2017-2018 school year.Fuentes worked tirelessly with advisors to submit her financial aid and college applications, navigate and secure scholarship opportunities and apply for student loans. In addition, the advisors guided her to attend a program at Texas Tech for first-generation college students, helping her build a network of fellow students.But support hasn’t ended there. She still receives calls and visits from advisors – and even care packages from Valero employees. “Knowing that there is continuous support from Valero for other students like me means so much,” she said.34Three Rivers refinery employees and families participate in a “Paint the Park” volunteer event at a local park.150,000 volunteer hours companywide in 2018~$3.6 million saved out-of-pocket labor costs~240 Valero employees serving
on ~330 nonprofit or civic boards600,000+ pounds of food or monetary food equivalents to food banks companywide in 20182.9 million pounds of food or monetary food equivalents to the San Antonio Food Bank since 2008~$1.6 million donated, and 20 homes built, for Habitat for Humanity families across the U.S. since 2008Valero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  35valero’s four pillars of supportValero and the Valero Energy Foundation fund nonprofit agencies that serve predominantly disadvantaged children and families within four areas. In 2018, we provided the direct monetary support below and on the next page.$8.9million39%$6.5million28%12Health CareWe provide support to various health care providers and health-related programs and services, with major gifts going to children’s hospitals and university medical centers.Recipients include the Gulf Coast Health Center-Westside Clinic, CHRISTUS Foundation for HealthCare, American Cancer Society, American Heart Association, Ronald McDonald House, ChildSafe, United Cerebral Palsy of the North Bay and many others.EducationValero is a strong advocate of education and contributes to programs, agencies or organizations that share the same focus.Recipients include Communities in Schools, Big Brothers Big Sisters, Solano Community College Educational Foundation, Boys & Girls Clubs, Fayette County Board of Developmental Disabilities, Boy and Girl Scouts and many others.$23 millionin total donations in 2018$4.8million21%$2.7million12%34Basic NeedsValero gives assistance to agencies that provide basic needs of life, including shelter, food and clothing necessary for the development of a strong community. Support for emergency services, children’s homes and area food banks are just a few examples of this support.Recipients include American Red Cross, San Antonio Food Bank, Feed the Needy, Amarillo Wesley Community Center, Ark Assessment Center and Emergency Shelter for Youth, Lafayette Transitional Housing and many others.CivicWe support environmental initiatives – such as conservation programs for disadvantaged youth and protection of native wildlife and habitats – and civic programs and the arts in our communities, including partnerships with art, history and children’s museums, as well as digital media in schools.Recipients include the Valero Endowment for the San Antonio Zoological Society, Hancock Whitney Zoo-To-Do, Audubon Nature Institute, Coastal Bend Wildlife Habitat Education Program, Nebraska Community Foundation, the Los Angeles Symphony and many others.Soup Kitchen a Reflection
of Community Caring
and GenerosityTwo weeks each year, Valero Ardmore Refinery volunteers cook, host and serve meals for needy families and the homeless at the Ardmore Soup Kitchen, downtown in the Oklahoma community.Throughout each of those weeks, about 40 to 50 refinery employees, family members and friends take part, providing approximately 275 to 450 meals and donating desserts. It has become one of the plant’s most valued volunteer events.For about 10 years, the nonprofit Ardmore Soup Kitchen has consolidated efforts of area businesses, churches and other nonprofits to serve meals to those in need. It is run solely on donations and through volunteers from the southern Oklahoma community.A different business, church or civic group is assigned on a weekly basis, and each week of the year is filled.The support reflects the generosity of Ardmore, and of the Valero refinery, which annually contributes more than half of the funds raised for the local United Way chapter, said Gino Silvas, Manager-Supply Chain Execution at the refinery and a volunteer who helps coordinate Valero’s soup kitchen effort.He said many of those helped by agencies supported by United Way also frequent the soup kitchen. “We probably feed every night here at this soup kitchen anywhere from 40 to 60 individuals who come in,” Silvas said. “Many of these individuals may live in a home but can’t afford to eat, and some are homeless and don’t live in a shelter. Ardmore is a very giving community.”Volunteering at the Ardmore Soup Kitchen has become a popular activity for the Valero Ardmore Refinery.“Many of these individuals may live in a home but can’t afford to eat, and some are homeless and don’t live in a shelter. Ardmore is a very giving community.”38~10,000 jobs directly supported, with payroll bolstering local economiesJOBS~$2.5 billion spent annually on
maintenance and growth projects,
boosting construction and service jobs~$4 billion spent annually on
refining materials, supplies and services
in local communities where we operate~$1 billion in average
total taxes paid annuallyTAXValero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  39A young boy works out at the Valero-supported Lion Hearted Boxing Academy, a Port Arthur youth mentoring organization.Valero Volunteers from the Port Arthur refinery assist a budding gardener at the new West Port Arthur Park and Community Garden.		Valero’s Environmental Justice PolicyValero strives to operate as a good neighbor and to look for opportunities to work with local officials and directly with fence-line neighbors to improve quality of life for its neighbors and communities.Valero aims to treat its fence-line neighbors fairly, regardless of race, color, national origin, culture or income. We work to ensure that our neighbors have an opportunity to understand our proposed activities, and to provide them with a meaningful opportunity to have their concerns heard, with the goal of providing them with greater comfort in our operations.40Wilmington refinery volunteers helped build a community garden at a neighborhood YMCA for local residents to enjoy.“Once Valero came in, they took a different approach. They wanted to hear what we
had to say. I had the opportunity to meet with some of the Valero top personnel,
and … they stepped in, in a big way.”Each year, the St. Charles refinery in Louisiana hosts a refinery tour for its Community Advisory Panel.The Valero Energy Foundation is providing $1 million to CHRISTUS Foundation for Healthcare for a clinic near our Houston refinery.Valero Stewardship and Responsibility Report  •  41