A Letter from the CEOValero Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
Joe Gorder visits with volunteers at a United Way Day of Caring event in San Antonio.We are proud to present our Stewardship and Responsibility Report. Team Valero provides reliable and affordable transportation fuels and other products indispensable to everyday life, driven by our Guiding Principles in safety, environmental stewardship, community engagement, employee programs and governance. We believe that our success is tied to these principles and their contribution to our business practices, strategy and goals. In safety, our refinery combined employee and contractor recordable injury rate in 2018 was half the industry average, and among our best-ever performances. Valero also achieved high refinery utilization rates, leading to another exemplary mark in process safety. We allocate roughly $1.5 billion annually to sustain our assets and ensure safe and reliable operations.As a result of our focus on safety and reliability, we also continue to show great performance in several key environmental measures.Of our three reporting segments – refining, ethanol and renewable diesel – two are in the renewables space and part of our growth strategy. In 2018, we acquired three ethanol plants, becoming the second-largest corn ethanol producer in the world with 14 sites. We also completed expansion of our renewable diesel plant in a joint venture that’s the world’s second-largest renewable diesel producer, and announced an additional expansion project that will more than double production capacity.Our complex refining system positions us well to comply with the U.N. International Maritime Organization’s (IMO) mandate for sulfur reduction in marine diesel fuels to start in 2020, which will contribute to reductions in emissions.We published our first “Review of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities,” showing the resilience of our assets across hypothetical scenarios and, based on this analysis, we confirmed the viability of our strategic vision.Our employees continue to make us proud by achieving operational excellence and leading community-based activities. We remain an employer of choice in the energy industry and have been publicly recognized as one of America’s best large employers.In governance, together with our board of directors, we are committed to robust regulatory compliance and the highest ethical standards. Our strength and support provide products for the modern world, and livelihoods and charity for many. We hope you enjoy our report!Joe GorderChairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerValero Vision and Guiding PrinciplesValero will be the premier manufacturer, distributor and marketer of quality transportation fuels and petrochemical feedstocks, while serving the needs of our employees, communities and stakeholders.Safety is our foundation for success.We view our stakeholders as
partners to whom we seek to
deliver operational excellence, disciplined management of
capital and long-term value
on a foundation of strong
governance and ethical
standards.We are committed stewards of the environment.The interlockingvalue of ourGuiding
PrinciplesWe consider 
our employees a
competitive advantage
and our greatest asset. We
foster a culture that supports diversity and inclusion, and provide a safe, healthy and rewarding work environment with opportunities for growth.We will be a
good neighbor by
sharing our success with
the communities where we
live and work through volunteerism, charitable giving and the economic support of being a good employer.Map of
OperationsCommitment To Excellence
Management System (CTEMS)Our Commitment To Excellence Management System (CTEMS) directs us in achieving our Guiding Principles. In driving operational excellence, CTEMS establishes a proprietary systematic approach to planning, executing, checking and acting to improve our everyday work activities across the entire company. It also further enhances our commitment to ensuring the health and safety of our employees and protecting the environment.CTEMS has nine elements:1.	Leadership Accountability2.	Protecting People and Environment3.	People and Skills Development4.	Operations Reliability and Mechanical Integrity5.	Technical Excellence and Knowledge Management6.	Change Management7.	Business Competitiveness8.	External Stakeholder Relationships9.	Assurance and Review
Operational excellence means reliable and predictable operations, which make our facilities safer and more efficient. CTEMS has counted many successes in areas ranging from change management to proper assessment of risk, fixed-equipment inspection and preventive maintenance. We will continue to assess existing programs against expectations defined in CTEMS.6Environmental, Social and
Governance (ESG)Valero’s executive management team and board of directors are committed to ongoing engagement with stakeholders. We believe that proactive and consistent dialogue with stakeholders helps us address their environmental, social and governance priorities while enhancing our business.The LaBranche Wetlands in Louisiana was the site of a major volunteer tree-planting event of Valero’s nearby St. Charles refinery in 2018. See page 28.The Valero Jean Gaulin Refinery marine terminal in Lévis, Quebec, displays giant frescoes on two tanks depicting a historic image of the nearby St. Lawrence River, developed in cooperation with the local community.With the oversight of the Nominating/Governance and Public Policy Committee of our board of directors, Valero’s executive management team assesses and manages a number of risks, including climate-related risks and opportunities, through an interdisciplinary approach that coordinates the views of our commercial, operational, regulatory, legal and government affairs groups into long-term strategic planning.In 2018, as part of our engagement with stockholders, we incorporated their views and input as follows: •	We published our “Review of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities,” which concluded that our strategy is durable under both strong and constrained demand conditions, as set forth under recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).•	We amended the charter of the Nominating/Governance and Public Policy Committee of our board of directors to strengthen oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.In accordance with our Guiding Principles on safety and environmental stewardship, 
Valero remains focused on being the safest and most reliable operator in our industry, 
with environmentally responsible operations.To read our “Review of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities,” go to
www.valero.com/en-us/AboutValero/CorporateResponsibility.814 ethanol
plantsWorld’s 2nd largest
renewable diesel producerReduced
GHG emissionsSignificant investment
in renewables:21% reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions
since 2010Continuous reduction
in energy useContinuous decline in environmental events, 
including flaring, criteria air emissions and reportable wastewater discharge eventsAn industry safety leaderTotal ethanol
investment $1.7 billionTotal renewable diesel
investment $1.8 billion*  *Joint venture total, invested and committedReflecting our Guiding Principles on community and employees, we are widely
recognized as an outstanding corporate citizen and employer.High employee volunteerism and
record donations
and fundraisingEmployees are our
greatest assetRecognized as one of 
America’s best large employers
by Forbes magazineFocus on diversity, inclusion
and talent developmentMember of the Civic 50 list of
America’s most community-minded
major companies by Points of Light$55.6 million generated
for charities in 2018In governance, Valero is fueled by integrity, adhering to the highest standards of ethical
conduct and corporate responsibility. We work every day to exhibit exemplary performance,
deliver long-term value to our stockholders and seize opportunities for constant improvement.Independent and diverse
board of directorsBoard committee provides
oversight of climate-related risks