SAFETYSafety is our foundation
for success.OUR OPERATIONS CONTINUED DURING 
THE COVID-19 PANDEMICLeveraging our extensive and proven safety and emergency preparedness protocols, we responded responsibly and quickly to protect the safety and well-being of our employees, their families and communities during the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of the world’s critical infrastructure, Valero refineries continued producing transportation fuels and other products essential to everyday life, while keeping employees and contractors protected with safe-at-work protocols, regular communications and response plans.Corporate and support employees at our headquarters returned to the office after safe-at-work protocols were put in place. These measures included increased frequency and type of cleaning, work-station modifications, mandatory face masks, safe-return training and social distancing protocols. We believe that safety and reliability are extremely important, not only to the cultural values we aspire to as a company, but also for operational success. A decrease in the number of employee safety events and process safety events reduces unplanned shutdowns and increases the operational reliability of our plants. This, in turn, translates into fewer environmental incidents, a safer workplace, lower environmental impacts and better community relations. We strive to improve safety and reliability by offering year-round safety training programs for our employees and contractors to promote the Valero culture of safety excellence. Safety compliance is achieved with frequent audits and quality assurance visits as well as comprehensive risk assessments to ensure safety standards are followed and comply with and often exceed local, state and federal regulations. In 2020, we spent $2 billion in capital expenditures to grow and sustain our operations, including investments in safety, preventive equipment maintenance, environmental mitigation and reliability. We also implemented new programs, procedures and training aimed at preventing injuries and environmental incidents. In 2020, Valero’s refining combined employee and contractor injury rate was its best ever with a Total Recordable Incidence Rate (TRIR) of 0.23 incidents per 200,000 working hours, well below the industry average. Our Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate was 0.06. 2020
was our best year ever
for safety performance.Employees with protective equipment at Valero’s Corpus Christi refineriesFor us, safety means our employees and contractors go home every day to their families and our communities rest assured knowing we are dedicated to keeping them safe. See page 109 for notes regarding this page.2020 SAFETY HIGHLIGHTSTHREE refineries with no employee recordable injuries
(Houston, Pembroke and Quebec)TWO refineries with neither employee nor contractor recordable injuries (Houston and Quebec)NINE refineries with no contractor recordable injuries
(Ardmore, Corpus Christi East, Corpus Christi West, Houston, McKee, Meraux, Quebec, Texas City and Wilmington)TEN refineries approved as Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Star Sites, the most of any refiner
(VPP Star Site is OSHA’s highest plant-safety designation)TWO international refineries approved as
Valero VPP Star Sites (Quebec and Pembroke)ONE refinery with no unplanned outages two years 
in a row (Quebec)ZERO ethanol plants with Tier 1 process safety eventsONE ethanol plant with ZERO employee recordable injuries in the past three years, ZERO contractor recordable injuries in the past five-and-a-half years, ZERO Tier 1 process safety events in more than 
11 years (Welcome ethanol plant) SIX facilities earning safety awards from American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) in 2020
(Ardmore, Corpus Christi*, Meraux, Three Rivers, Wilmington and Wilmington Asphalt)ONE Elite Silver Safety Award to the Wilmington Asphalt Plant for performance in the top 5% of AFPM members63%REDUCTION IN 
REFINERY COMBINED EMPLOYEE
AND CONTRACTOR INJURY RATES
SINCE 2011*Corpus Christi, with two refineries, awarded as a single facility.PERSONNEL SAFETY
REFINERY EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS1.10IndustryTotal Recordable Incidence Rate (TRIR)0.400.62(Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours)Valero0.232018201920112012201320142015201620172020Refining Industry Employees
(U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics)SAFETY METRICSGLOBAL REFINING 2017 2018 2019 2020 Personnel Safety Employee1 0.28 0.40 0.25 0.34 Personnel Safety Contractor1 0.36 0.32 0.39 0.15 Fatality Rate Employee2 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Fatality Rate Contractor2 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 Process Safety Events Rates - Tier 13 0.08 0.07 0.05  0.06 Process Safety Events Rates - Tier 23 0.18 0.31 0.17 0.17 1 Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours.2 Per 200,000 working hours.3 Global refining Tier 1 process safety event (PSE) rates and Tier 2 PSE rates as defined within American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754.Valero Houston RefineryVALERO REFINERIES VS. OTHER SECTORS
(INJURIES RECORDED PER 200,000 WORKING HOURS)VALERO REFINERYEMPLOYEES ANDCONTRACTORS0.23Accounting/Tax
Preparation Services0.3PetroleumRefining0.4SOURCES: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Valero; Industry figures are for 2019; Valero refinery figure, 2020.Electric PowerGeneration1.1Construction2.8Forestry andLogging2.8Manufacturing3.3Hospitals5.5FramingContractors7.0VPP: HIGHEST PLANT-SAFETY DESIGNATION“Going beyond” has been a constant theme throughout our history, and one of the best examples has been our participation in the Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) of the U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).Valero voluntarily submits to rigorous safety standards and audits. Facilities that have maintained industry-leading safety performance and have successfully passed the assessment process, establishing that they have implemented continuous enhanced safety systems, are approved as VPP Star Sites, regarded as OSHA’s highest plant-safety designation. Valero leads the refining sector with 10 U.S. petroleum refineries approved as VPP Star Sites. Valero also goes beyond the U.S. border to make sure its Quebec (Canada) and Pembroke (United Kingdom) refineries have the opportunity to shine. Each holds Valero VPP Stars after passing audits patterned after those in the U.S., conducted by teams of independent OSHA-trained inspectors.As part of a partnership with OSHA, several dozen Valero employees are designated as Special Government Employees (SGEs), who participate in VPP assessments, sharing safety knowledge, experience and best practices with others both within and outside our industry. We believe that our employees are our competitive advantage, but when it comes to protecting the safety and well-being of others, that is one advantage we are willing to share.PROCESS SAFETY AND RELIABILITY Resulting from another excellent performance in process safety and reliability, Valero once again achieved high refinery utilization rates, which are essential to curb environmental incidents and improve safety. Our capital investments in reliability, along with our program of comprehensive reliability assessments and proprietary management systems, have contributed to consistent excellent performance in process safety. Our efforts have yielded results. In 2020, we continued achieving low process safety event rates, both in terms of annual and three-year rolling average Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate. 10REFINERIES ARE OSHA VPP STAR SITES BECAUSE OF RIGOROUS SAFETY STANDARDS63%REDUCTION IN TIER 1 PROCESS SAFETY EVENT RATES SINCE 2011*INVESTMENTS IN RELIABILITY CONTRIBUTE TO OPERATIONS EXCELLENCEValero has consistently improved, compared with industry peers, leading to lower operating expenses, better efficiency and improved environmental performance.*Three-year rolling averages of PSE Tier 1 events per 200,000 working hours.Valero Three Rivers RefineryTIER 1 PROCESS SAFETYProcess Safety 
Event RateThree-year rolling averages per 200,000 working hours.0.16397.2%0.061MECHANICAL AVAILABILITY
IN 20202011201220132015201620172018202020142019Improvement in Mechanical AvailabilityMechanical availability is the percentage of time our units are available to operate, and a key indicator of reliability. Our 97.2% mechanical availability in 2020 represents highly reliable refinery operations. Excellent performance in this metric reflects our ability to prevent unplanned downtime, minimize environmental events and successfully execute planned and unplanned refinery maintenance in a timely manner. 1ST20182ND3RD20084THIndustry Benchmark QuartilesValero’s U.S. refining system performance as a group compared to individual refinery quartile performance standings. Industry benchmarking and Valero’s performance statistics from Solomon Associates and Valero.Improvement in Non-Energy Cash OpexImprovement in Personnel IndexImprovement in Maintenance Index1ST2ND20183RD20084THIndustry Benchmark QuartilesGOAL ZERO SAFETY PROGRAMAs part of our continuing commitment to safety, we launched the Goal Zero program in 2020, focused on eliminating incidents. After a year of implementation, this program improved performance through sharing of safety incident information and focusing on six data-driven areas: energy isolation and control; heavy equipment and vehicle operations; hand awareness and safety; dropped objects; slips, trips and falls; and contractor safety management.Goal Zero is supported by the use of assessments like our Control of Hazardous Energy and Materials (CHEM), which looks at refinery processes from the preparation of equipment for maintenance to the way the equipment is placed back into service afterward. The CHEM assessments closely examine the human aspect of our processes and challenge our team members to really focus on the execution of procedures designed to protect them.Valero’s Technician at Valero’s Corpus Christi West Refinery practices emergency preparedness drill.74%REDUCTION IN 
HAND INJURIES IN 2020,
FROM THE YEAR BEFORENew gloves worn by employee at Valero
St. Charles Refinery.NEW GLOVES AND OTHER SAFETY MEASURES
GIVE ‘GOAL ZERO’ A HANDHands down, the most applause from Valero’s new Goal Zero program in 2020 came with required use of new cut- and impact-resistant gloves for specified tasks.In 2020 Valero refining employees and contractors saw a 74% drop in hand injuries from the year before. Not only that, the share of hand injuries to total recordable incidents decreased from 36% to 16% in that time, contributing to Valero’s lowest-ever refinery combined employee and contractor injury rate.The number of refineries with zero hand injuries soared from four in 2019 to 11 in 2020 – including Ardmore, Benicia, Corpus Christi (two refineries), Houston, McKee, Memphis, Meraux, Pembroke, Quebec and Three Rivers. Glove selection and protection levels are determined by work type at each refinery. Employees and contractors are trained to pay attention to adjacent work activities, maintain good visibility, focus on the task at hand and eliminate potential hazardous human-machine interferences. Rules of thumb include keeping hands out of the “line of fire,” never putting hands on a suspended load and using mechanical lifting devices for heavy equipment, among others.Like the new hand safety initiative, all Goal Zero focus areas closely examine the human aspects of our processes and challenge our team members to maintain emphasis on the procedures designed to protect them.LIFE-SAVING RULESWe have long maintained a set of “Life-Saving Rules” at our plants to guard against the most serious of unsafe work practices that could lead to injuries. Violations of these rules are met with the highest personal accountability. They range from working without a valid work permit, to failure to wear specified life-protection equipment.Our employees and contractors have become familiar with these rules – and how the rules apply to their own roles and responsibilities. They know that the rules simply must be followed in all circumstances to eliminate serious incidents.The program is supported by comprehensive training and realistic field exercises focusing on critical work processes and procedures.Seven critical rules that must be followed at all times.Use specified life-protection equipment.Protect
yourself
against a fall when working
at heights.Smoke in designated areas only.Work with a valid work permit when required.Verify energy isolation
before beginning
work.Obtain authorization before
entering a confined
space.Obtain authorization before overriding or bypassing a safety system.SAFETY TRAININGAs part of our CTEMS, we offer a robust and dynamic year-round training program to ensure excellence in operations.With more than 592,000 hours of safety training in 2020 for ~6,000 refinery employees, our safety training covers a wide variety of topics, including:•	Critical safety procedures, such as energy isolation and control, confined-space entry, fall protection, life-saving equipment and safe work permitting•	Training for excellence in refining operations and mechanical integrity as well as process safety, emergency preparedness and cybersecurity•	Training through computer-based sessions, instructor-led courses, safety meetings and daily safety talksCONTRACTOR SAFETY Valero’s strong safety culture includes not only employees but also contractors. Contractors have adopted the same approach to operational excellence in order to avoid incidents. In fact, contractor companies working at Valero refineries hold a total of 26 OSHA Voluntary Protection Program Stars, after voluntarily submitting to and completing stringent safety audits by OSHA inspectors, as most of Valero’s refineries have done.As outlined in our CTEMS, safety qualifications for all existing and new contractors performing work at our refineries are essential to improve safety performance, efficiency and safety compliance. Contractors are held to the same level of safety training as our employees, participating in more than 890,000 training hours in 2020.PRESCREENING FOR SAFETY PERFORMANCE AND RISKS•	Contractor companies are prescreened by a third party to meet or exceed the Valero health and safety expectations.•	Contractor employees are trained initially and annually through a reciprocal contractor safety council focused on petrochemical and site-specific health and safety requirements.•	Contractors are responsible for ensuring individual craft certifications are maintained.•	Comprehensive drug/alcohol testing and disciplinary action programs are required.
OPERATING GUIDELINES ON CONTRACTOR SAFETY MANAGEMENT •	Contractor performance is evaluated both during and at the completion of jobs, including preplanning, permitting, auditing and post-job evaluations.•	Contractors are expected to meet or exceed Valero health and safety programs, as well as state and federal regulations.Valero Meraux RefineryVALERO STEWARDSHIP AND RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  •  49EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSEWith refineries along coastlines and ethanol plants in the U.S. Midwest, Valero evaluates and prepares for physical risks to its facilities from natural disasters, including hurricanes and tornadoes, to other threats, and works to mitigate risks to its people, assets, surrounding communities and the environment. Valero’s investment in sustaining capital expenditures includes upgrades in physical risk mitigation practices. •	Emergency response plans at each facility •	Qualified response teams and relationships with outside response personnel •	Regular drills and assessments •	Critical capital resources •	Use of emerging technologies •	Emergency management process that complies with all laws and regulationsHURRICANE PREPAREDNESS This involves both pre-hurricane season measures, as well as a five-phase process in order to give adequate time and resources for our employees and facilities to safely prepare.SECURE FACILITIESReducing physical risks through infrastructure design to withstand adverse natural disasters and weather conditions.Valero Ardmore RefineryEMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLANNINGAssess potential risks posed to our people and operations, and implement solutionsOur post-hurricane assistance team provides much-needed employee help after the storms by removing debris and doing urgent home repairs and other essential tasks.Phase 1: Start of seasonPhase 2: Predicted storm path and potential for impactPhase 3: Significant impact to sites likely Phase 4: ShutdownPhase 5: Post-hurricane responseImprovements Control center at Valero St. Charles Refinery.