PEOPLEValero employees at our Three Rivers refinery. 76Our people are our competitive advantage and our greatest asset. 
We are committed to building the best teams and providing a safe, healthy, inclusive and rewarding work environment with opportunities for professional growth and long-term financial stability. We understand that sustainability is also about people. Our long-standing culture supports our commitment to diversity and a true sense of belonging for every member of Team Valero. We make investments in our people that reward commitment, innovation and excellence. Our approach advances not only the future of energy, but also the future of our workforce for years to come. “2021 was formidable, but no match for Valero’s people. Guided by our cultural values, our people focused on what they do best: delivering reliable, affordable transportation fuels to meet the world’s demand as it recovered, while taking great care of the communities in which we live and work. In addition, Valero made significant progress in advancing important goals that will ensure the sustainability of our industry-leading workforce.”- Julia Rendon Reinhart, 
Senior Vice President and 
Chief Human Resources Officer88%
of Valero employees “recommend Valero as a great place to work”Our PeopleFor more than 40 years, Valero has enlisted the world’s best and brightest engineers, operators, maintenance crafts and business professionals to advance the future of energy and drive exceptional results in the transportation fuels industry. Across the globe, Valero’s people are experiencing rewarding careers in diverse and inclusive work environments. We hire to retire and make every effort to support our employees in their career journey. Global Employees
9,809Where We AreUNITED STATES
83%UNITED KINGDOM/IRELAND
8%CANADA
7%MEXICO/PERU
2%What We DoEMPLOYEES % 
WORKFORCE OPERATIONS 4,442 45% MAINTENANCE 1,572 16% ENGINEERING 750 8% ACCOUNTING & FINANCE 668 7% INFORMATION SYSTEMS 451 5% COMMERCIAL/MARKETING 719 7% OTHER 1,207 12% FIELD OPERATIONS
78%CORPORATE
22%REPRESENTED BY LABOR UNIONS
18%*Data reflects Valero’s global employee population
as of December 31, 2021 unless otherwise noted.For more information, see Valero’s 2021 EEO-1 Report on page 110.Our WorkforceGENZ
2%BOOMER
16%Race/Ethnicity (U.S.)MINORITY
37%WHITE
63%GenerationsBLACK/AFRICAN AMERICAN
7%HISPANIC

23%OTHER

7%MILLENNIAL
36%GENX
46%GenderWOMEN

19%WOMEN PROFESSIONAL
30%12%
VETERANS (U.S.)17%
WITH DISABILITIES (U.S.)People LeadersWOMEN
20%MINORITY (U.S.)
24%Years of Service< 5 YEARS
28%10-20 YEARS
32%5-10 YEARS
20%20+ YEARS
20%Who We Are AttractingValero Interns (200) (U.S.)WOMEN
39%MEN
61%MINORITY
34%NON-MINORITY
66%Driving Success Through CultureOur people deserve an exceptional work environment. From how we work to how we treat each other and those in our community, Valero’s long-standing and engrained cultural values act as the compass and source of inspiration for everything we do. 123SafetySafety is our foundation for suc.cess. From workplace safety to health and wellness, employees are encouraged to promote and demonstrate their commitment to safety at all times.AccountabilityEmployees make a personal 
choice to take ownership of 
performance. Creating an 
environment of accountability 
helps achieve important company goals and drives excellence.TeamworkStrong teams drive successful organizations. Valero believes that great teamwork and strong relationships are built through respectful collaboration, the sharing of diverse perspectives, and strong communication. 465Do The Right ThingOur commitment to integrity means doing the right thing for the right reason. Our people are trustworthy and set positive exam.ples, leading to open, honest and sincere communication. CaringThrough caring, we create oppor.tunities to positively impact the teams we support, the environ.ment we share, the customers we serve and the communities where we live and work. ExcellenceValero employees treat every day like game day – working hard; being disciplined and holding our.selves to the highest standards to deliver best-in-class results. COVID-19The COVID-19 pandemic presented tremendous challenges to all aspects of our business in 2021. As with any other challenge, our culture values guided our response. With nearly 80% of our employees at our plants, with no option to work from home, our employees at our U.S. headquarters remained in the office in support of our operations teammates. Our safety culture allowed us to be together as a team to work collaboratively and demonstrate our leadership in the industry in delivering safe, affordable and reliable fuels as demand recovered. “It is our emphasis on safety, teamwork, excellence and accountability that makes us a leader in the industry. But it is our commitment to doing the right thing and caring for our employees, our partners and communities that inspire us to excel.”- Lane Riggs, President and Chief Operating Officer“Some of my first childhood memories were attending Valero’s annual family picnics and creating artwork through the Valero volunteers for the community. I don’t know where my sister and I would have been educationally without my dad’s job at Valero and his opportunity to grow within the company. It’s important that we focus on community initiatives and cultivate our local workforce because our efforts create job and economic opportunities for our neighbors. In my job with Valero, I get to create those opportunities and pay it forward.”- Sara Montelongo, 
Manager Refinery Public Affairs, Valero Houston and Texas City Refineries.Father and daughter, Billy and Sara Montelongo, both work at Valero’s Houston Refinery, and come from the Manchester neighborhood, our fence-line community.“A wise man once said, ‘Individual commitment to a group effort - that is what makes a team work, a company work, a society work, a civilization work’… this is what makes Valero work! When you hear ‘COMMITMENT TO EXCELLENCE’ and ‘SAFETY IS OUR PRIORITY,’ it’s all about team effort. Teamwork and accountability to each other are what make those things actionable. Valero’s strong cultural values and everyone’s alignment with those values are what makes us special.”- Jimmy Fulbright, Lead Process Technician, Valero Corpus Christi Refinery. 800+
New employees
in 2021Attracting the Best Talent Valero strives to hire the best and brightest, while improving the diversity of our workforce. We understand this is foundational to sustaining an industry-leading workforce. Diversity delivers innovation, and innovation delivers results. The people we hire today will be our leaders of tomorrow. In 2021, we continued to enhance our recruitment process to ensure we reached the widest pool of candidates and ensure their hiring experience reflects our cultural values and our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. We have systematized the use of diverse interview panels; require diverse candidate slates for jobs with more than 30 applicants; employ blind resume reviews for certain jobs; modernized our job postings to be inclusive of all potential candidates; and updated the social and digital platforms on which our jobs are marketed. We educate our hiring teams on our culture and priorities as they relate to the requisite caliber of candidates and our commitment to improving diversity. We actively engage with local veterans’ organizations and technical and community colleges for our hiring needs.Valero partners with the City of San Antonio in SA Ready to Work, which prepares local residents with an income level less than 250% of the federal poverty guideline to learn new skills and prepare them for living wage employment.DEI at ValeroDiversity, Equity and Inclusion is not a standalone activity or program at Valero. It is embedded in our cultural values. It is integrated into every process and mechanism that impacts our recruitment activities and our employees. In these pages, you will see aspects of our commitment to build more diverse teams and ensure an authentic sense of belonging to support inclusion in our workforce and in everything we do. $90,000+AVERAGE STARTING PAY W/ BONUSFrom the West Coast to Graceland, 254 new Operators joined Team ValeroOur field operators are the backbone of our company. They operate our plants 24/7 in the heat of Texas summers and the cold of Canadian winters. They are entrusted with the complex units and machinery that produce our products, and adhere to strict safety standards that protect their teams and their communities. For these roles, we need the best our communities have to offer. In 2021, Valero offered 254 openings across our refineries. More than 15,000 applications were received, requiring mechanical aptitude, a willingness to learn and adherence to a strict safety culture. Our selection process is designed to produce a slate of qualified and diverse candidates who, once hired, are provided a Basic Operator Training Program that prepares new operators for their first post and their future careers.Local College Partnerships Produce 
Excellent EmployeesValero partners with local colleges that stimulate and support a community-based workforce. Through program leadership and curriculum guidance, we play a role in the education pipeline at a grassroots level, expanding important local talent pools for our operations and our industry.Our PartnershipsArdmore, Oklahoma•	Southern TechCorpus Christi, Texas •	Del Mar Community CollegeMemphis, Tennessee•	William R. Moore College of TechnologyNew Orleans, Louisiana (area) •	River Parish Technical College•	St. Charles Parish High School Satellite Center•	Nunez Community CollegePembroke, Wales•	Pembrokeshire College
Port Arthur, Texas•	Lamar Institute of Technology•	Lamar State College - Port Arthur•	Lamar State College - Orange •	Port Arthur ISDJuan Ceja (right), Supervisor Operations - DP and Marcus Campbell (above), Superintendent Emergency Services, received their associate degrees from Lamar Institute of Technology and joined Valero Port Arthur upon graduation. Fueling Exceptional FuturesFor 24 years, the Valero Intern Program has grown into our primary recruiting vehicle for our professional workforce. Internships target high-performing college students in engineering, accounting, commercial, marketing, information systems, cybersecurity, communications and human resources.We continue to find ways to improve the diversity of our intern program. These efforts include expanding the schools from which we recruit; developing partnerships with on-campus affinity groups and societies to improve outreach to under-represented students; and developing relationships with high-potential minority candidates early in their educational journey. New Records Set 
for representation of women (39%) and minorities (34%)
in our Intern Class.40COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 
REPRESENTED IN INTERN CLASS.92% INTERN ACCEPTANCE FOR
FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT.
Minority Engineering SummitThe Valero Minority Engineering Summit, a four-day immersion experience at Valero headquarters, was created to increase our talent pipeline of minority engineering students. In our inaugural year, 11 freshmen minority engineering students from various engineering schools were selected through a competitive process to participate in the program, and each received a $1,500 scholarship. The feedback was outstanding, and seven of the 11 students accepted offers to join our 2022 intern class. Valero has 
invested more than 
$7.4
MILLION 
in support of women and minority student groups,
and engineering schools.
2017 - 2021The National Association of Colleges and Employers recognized Valero’s 2021 MES program as a DEI program of excellence.Total Wellness & RewardsOur approach:•	Compensate employees fairly and equitably, verified by third party.•	Pay for performance.•	Provide competitive benefit offerings for every stage of life throughout a career and into retirement.•	Foster an inclusive wellness culture for every employee.Valero’s Total Wellness & Rewards are a direct investment in our employees’ health, well-being and long-term financial securityDesigned and administered with our cultural values and business strategies in mind, our direct base and incentive compensation; comprehensive suite of benefits and retirement programs support our acquisition and retention of the best, brightest and most diverse talent in our industry. More importantly, from hire to retire, they support the overall well-being — health, wealth, and emotional — of our employees and their families. We believe that this investment in our greatest asset delivers the ultimate return – a happy, healthy and productive workforce, committed to the success of our company. 2021 Total People Investment$2.2 BILLION100%OF VALERO EMPLOYEES EARN MORE THAN
A LIVING WAGEMEDIAN-PAID EMPLOYEE:
$198,219*(TOTAL REWARDS)Global Compensation$1.2 BILLIONDIRECT COMPENSATION$285 MILLIONBONUS PAYMENTSEqual Pay CommitmentValero is committed to equal pay
regardless of protected status.$85 MILLIONINCENTIVE STOCK AWARDS PAY EQUITY RATIO (U.S.)99%GENDER100%MINORITY*See 2022 Proxy Statement, page 86.Our Total Wellness benefits and programs support our employees’ Physical, Emotional and Financial Well-Being 97%EMPLOYEES ENROLLED
IN MEDICAL PLANS
$192 MILLIONINVESTMENT IN THE PHYSICAL
WELL-BEING OF OUR EMPLOYEESPhysical Well-Being•	Comprehensive healthcare plans.•	Onsite Employee Wellness Centers.•	Dependent Care Clinic (corporate only).•	On-site Fitness Centers or stipend.•	Annual Wellness Assessment.•	Medical Specialist Consultations.
Emotional Well-Being•	Employee Assistance Program.•	Confidential Crisis Hotline.•	Caregiver support networks.•	Parental leave and adoption assistance. •	Generous vacation and leave programs.•	Behavioral health benefits. 
Financial Well-Being•	Generous 401(k) match.•	Pension plans.•	Access to retiree medical plan.•	Short-term and long-term disability.•	Health Savings Account contribution. •	Customized financial education & planning.•	Financial hardship funds.•	Tuition reimbursement.•	Valero Scholarship Program for dependents.$112 MILLIONVACATION AND PAID LEAVE95%EMPLOYEES ENROLLED
IN 401(k) PLAN
$260 MILLIONIN SUPPORT OF A FINANCIALLY
HEALTHY RETIREMENT90%*
Employees feel that 
“Valero is invested in my health and wellness.”91%*
Employees “satisfied with
the range of benefits
Valero has to offer.”*2022 Annual Benefits Statement Survey.Total Wellness in ActionScholarships to Achieve Educational Success“This accomplishment was made possible with the support of family and friends, and the Valero Scholarship Program. As I prepare for the next chapter, I am applying to medical schools for admission in the fall of 2023. Meanwhile, I am working as a research associate to further cancer treatment research.”Antony Alvarado, 2021 recipient of a Valero Scholarship, dependent of Jose Perez-Camas, Chief Mechanic, Wilmington Refinery, graduated from the University of Rochester College of Arts and Sciences, with a B.S. in Biochemistry.Supporting a Comfortable Retirement“Valero’s Planning for Retirement session really helped me understand how to take advantage of the great health and financial benefits Valero offers its retirees. In addition, having the opportunity to meet on campus with a Merrill financial advisor and put together a customized retirement plan for my family was invaluable. Valero’s generous 401(k) and Pension Plan, accompanied with the flexibility of distribution options, has helped set my family up for success during our retirement years.”
Tom Karger, 18-year Valero employee and recent retiree, and his wife Carolyn, enjoying retirementRemoving the Stigma around Mental Health“I was experiencing a difficult relationship situation in my life and I knew that I needed help. I discovered that our Employee Assistance Program, LifeConnections, offered free counseling sessions. Through this program, I began to understand the importance and impact of taking care of my mental health. Through this process, I’ve learned that I am stronger because I’m getting help and that there are others like me with these types of concerns. I hope other employees will take advantage of the mental health resources Valero offers.”David Purcell, Lead Office & Print Services SpecialistReuben Escobedo, Manager Financial BenefitsEthan Jones, Senior Counsel & Assistant Secretary Advancing Careers Through Tuition Reimbursement 
“Through Valero’s Tuition Reimbursement Program, I received my four-year business degree. This laid the groundwork for me to pursue a law degree at St. Mary’s University, in its part-time law degree program. I am extremely grateful and humbled by the investment Valero has made in me and its commitment to encourage, develop and support its employees.” Wellness Resources Help Change Lives
“The results of my annual wellness exam showed that I was pre-diabetic, with high cholesterol, and hypertension – on the way to hypertensive crisis level. I weighed 270 pounds and my body was letting me know I needed to make a change. With the help of our wellness clinics and Real Appeal, a weight loss tool offered free to Valero employees, I have lost 40 pounds. I drastically reduced my blood pressure by controlling my pre-diabetes, and I am starting to feel healthy again. I am so thankful for the great doctors taking care of me and for the tools and resources Valero provides to stay healthy.”lbsDaycare to Support 
Work/Life Balance“We’ve been at the Valero Family Center for four years, and it has been one of the best experiences for our family. The convenience of having an on-site subsidized day care makes a real difference in my life as a professional and as a mother. It’s one of the many reasons Valero is a great place to work.”Jennifer Mullin, Lead Accounting Coordinator, and her two boys outside the Valero Family Center on the Valero Headquarters campusMoving Forward TogetherTo sustain a diverse workforce and harness the power of our diversity, every Team Valero member must feel a deep sense of belonging to the team and each other. It is an imperative. Our inclusive culture supports a sense of belonging and builds more dynamic teams. Education & NetworkingWe create opportunities to learn about our differences to foster a deeper sense of belonging.Diversity Ambassadors Valero’s Diversity Ambassadors serve as advocates for Diversity Equity & Inclusion (DEI) principles in the workplace and in the communities where we work and live. Ambassadors seek opportunities to build awareness of DEI and promote inclusivity in the workplace and engagement in our community.“As a Diversity Ambassador, I help cultivate and ensure an environment of inclusion and belonging. Whether that’s welcoming new employees or connecting people to events/organizations at work or in the community, the Diversity Ambassadors help build a stronger, more inclusive workforce here at Valero.”- Mark Williams, Sr. Manager 
Wholesale Marketing.Diversity ForumsTeam events, many in support of cultural and community events, help build understanding within our workforce. Our 2021 MLK Speech & Diversity Forum was held live and recorded for all Valero sites to listen and learn from their peers. ObservancesIn observance of Black History Month, Valero employees gathered for a conversation with the curators of the art exhibit and documentary, “Living in My Skin – Black Men in San Antonio Share Their Stories.” The project aimed to create a deeper understanding of race relations in our community, and foster a deeper cultural understanding of each other’s lives and feelings.CelebrationsIn celebration of the Diwali festival of lights, Valero employees enjoyed a live Rangoli sand art demonstration. Employees were invited to attend in traditional attire and bring Rangoli activities home to their families.EducationBi-monthly virtual book discussions bring topics on Diversity & Inclusion, Leadership and Professional Development conveniently to our people. The experiences build camaraderie while encouraging teams to share common interests and diverse perspectives.NetworkingThrough the convenience of a virtual platform, Valero employees have access to interactive networking discussions that engage, educate and allow for individual ideas and perspectives to be heard. During Women’s History Month, Valero women were invited to a four-part series to share experiences in health/wellness, confidence, work/life balance and professional development. Women in Operations - We Belong123Candace WebbHouston Refinery 
Backup Console Operator 
(8 years)“I am most excited knowing the products we make at Valero contribute to making a positive impact on people’s lives and the world. Valero has a family-oriented culture that gives me and my family a sense of belonging.”Jodi Orgeron 

St. Charles Renewable Diesel Plant Board Operator (2 years)“Valero allows employees to feel engaged and invested in their work, which motivates and inspires me to work hard. If I can do it, anyone can. The best advice I can give is if you want something, you have to go out and get it. Don’t be afraid to learn something new.”Cachet WilliamsBenicia Refinery 
Operations Supervisor and Trainer (7 years)“There is a place for [women] in operations. Valero respects diversity and acknowledges their employees as a competitive advantage. The generous benefits and professional development opportunities offered give me a sense of belonging and make me feel appreciated.”546Merlys NavasTexas City Refinery
Operations Supervisor (12 years)“Careers in energy are 
challenging but also very rewarding and full of 
opportunities to grow personally and professionally. I am part of a team that works hard and advances this industry, together. We’re on the front lines of fueling the modern world – and that’s incredibly rewarding.”Sadari WilliamsSt. Charles Refinery 
Lab Technician (9 years)“Every person’s job here is extremely important to keep the refinery running efficiently and to be successful. The fact that we are encouraged to always better ourselves and progress in knowledge and expertise shows Valero cares about every one of us.”Penny JohnPembroke Refinery (U.K.)Blending and Shipping Shift Team Leader (11 years)“I can honestly say I have never had two shifts the same. Whether talking to vessels with different nationalities or dealing with weather or issues faced during the pandemic, these all make the job interest.ing and keep me on my toes. Overcoming the challenges presented each day gives an immense job satisfaction.”Jill Burns, Director Technology, and Pam Jackson, Manager Regional Optimization Planning, provide leadership for the Women’s Engineering NetworkWomen’s Engineering NetworkThe Women’s Engineering Network helps connect women in engineering roles throughout the organization, from leadership to early career to summer interns. More than 130 women are engaged in this grassroots engineering community to focus on creating an environment of belonging for women in engineering at Valero, addressing how to navigate and find your voice as a woman in our industry, creating a network for mentorship and career advice, and gaining a deeper understanding of cultural differences as women in engineering. VALERO IS A PROUD SPONSORValero values the impact and contributions made by women throughout our company. We continue to improve our gender demographics. Since 2018:PEOPLE LEADERS
18% TO 20%11%  EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP
11% TO 15%
36%  ENGINEERING
17% TO 20%
18% Our approach:•	Inclusive opportunities to develop technical expertise, and leadership, communication and 
team-building skills •	Ongoing coaching and feedback•	Access to extensive resources for personal and professional growth •	Concepts of diversity and inclusion woven into all development programsDeveloping Our LeadersWe are committed to building a strong learning culture, where all employees are supported in reaching their full potential. At the core of every successful Valero leader is a strong understanding of our business, our culture, and the people who drive our success. We develop our leaders to motivate, engage and create inclusive teams to expand our talent pipeline and reduce turnover.68HOURS OF TRAINING 
PER EMPLOYEE IN 202192%RETENTION OF GLOBAL
PEOPLE LEADERS“People are at the core of our success at Valero. Investing in the development of our leaders is key to maintaining our competitive advantage. Valero’s Leadership Development Program provides leaders with the foundation they need to reach their full potential.” - Christine James, Director Refinery Operations, 
Valero Houston Refinery Advancing Careers Through Customized TrainingProgram highlighting foundational topics to accelerate understanding of new supervisory role.Required program building essential skills for managing and leading others. Includes yearlong cohort learning experience with an executive leader coach.Program supporting experienced leaders with unique opportunities to learn directly from executive leaders first-hand experiences and perspectives on essential leadership skills.LeaderTalksLeaderTalks is a virtual program that offers a unique opportunity to hear directly from executive leaders on their first-hand experiences and perspectives on essential leadership skills and learnings from their careers. Executive leadership demonstrates a strong commitment to each employee reaching their full potential through their active participation and endorsement of all learning programs. 100%OF EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP ROLES ARE PROMOTIONS FROM WITHIN OUR TALENT PIPELINE“Valero is an organization that is committed to long-term leadership development. Our company’s resources and training classes help to develop and refine skills that are essential for effective leadership. I have also been given numerous opportunities to lead exceptional teams as we navigated real-world challenges, which tested my capabilities and further shaped my leadership style. Most importantly, I have had the privilege of working for outstanding leaders, who have provided mentorship, career guidance, and through their day-to-day actions, demonstrated exceptional leadership traits.” - Brian Donovan, Vice President U.K. Commercial OperationsTraining Impacts84%LEARNED A NEW SKILL91%UTILIZED LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT TOOLS 
AND RESOURCESCustomized curriculum designed to reinforce expectations of field leaders to build strong teams and drive operational excellence.Assessment based program for experienced leaders to enhance their overall effectiveness and understanding of leadership expectations.81%NOTED PERFORMANCE
IMPROVEMENT