WE MAKE CLEAN ENERGY HAPPEN® Providing Clean, Affordable & Reliable EnergyWilliams is a leading infrastructure provider connecting the most prolific supplies of natural 
gas to markets with growing demand. Our mission 
is to be the leader in providing infrastructure that safely delivers affordable energy to reliably fuel the clean energy economy. Natural gas is one of the most powerful and mature tools in accomplishing emissions reduction goals quickly, both domestically and internationally. Right-of-way near DeSoto Parish, Louisiana.Energy AccessGRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3Natural gas continues to play an important role in the clean energy economy. In 2020, natural gas accounted for a historic high of nearly 40% of electricity generation in the United States driven by low natural gas prices according to 
the 2021 Annual Energy Outlook published by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA). As shown in the graphic below, the EIA projects that natural gas will provide a meaningful 36% of U.S. electricity generation while renewable energy will be responsible for 42% of electricity generation in 2050. Williams aims to be a long-term participant in the low-carbon economy, leveraging our existing energy infrastructure.Natural gas will continue to promote energy reliability by supplementing intermittently available renewable energy sources while supporting 
a sustainable, clean energy future.As we strive to meet the 
growing domestic demand for American-sourced energy, we remain committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from 
our operations while also helping 
our customers achieve their emissions reduction goals. For additional information on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from 
our operations, see page 40.Natural gas is used for a variety of daily applications. The residential 
and commercial sectors use it to heat buildings and water, cook food, dry clothes, operate cooling equipment and provide lighting. According to 
the EIA, an estimated 50% of U.S. homes relied on natural gas in 2020. The industrial sector uses natural 
gas as a fuel for process heating, waste treatment and incineration, 
as well as a raw material to manufacture clothing, tires, home building materials, fertilizer, wind turbines and hydrogen—all of which help generate the products we 
use daily and the food we eat.As one of the largest interstate pipeline transmission providers in 
the United States, Williams’ pipeline expansion projects connect the 
best supply basins to some of the fastest growing demand centers, positively affecting local economies and improving living standards by providing new or additional access to clean, reliable and affordable energy.Renewable electricity sources are not always available to generate power and meet consumer demands for energy. Given its abundant supply and affordability, natural gas is an ideal fuel to maintain power generation reliability, thereby protecting families and businesses from intermittency issues, rolling blackouts and 
higher electricity bills.Providing the infrastructure to reliably deliver affordable natural gas is one way Williams contributes to the equitable distribution of affordable, clean energy. According to the American Gas Association 2019 Energy Analysis, homes with natural gas heating save nearly $900 on average per year compared to all-electricity homes—helping 
low-income families and households on fixed incomes make ends meet.Williams aligns geographic operations and infrastructure expansion efforts to reduce expenses and achieve business objectives. By maximizing operational efficiencies, we are 
able to reduce costs while still safely and effectively delivering energy 
to communities across the United States. Additionally, throughout 2020, Williams maintained robust reliability plans and contingencies that helped prevent supply disruptions to our customers and ultimately kept costs low for energy consumers. Williams’ pipeline integrity and maintenance efforts ensure our systems operate with the least disruption possible. The table on the next page shows the percent deliverability of our transmission business.The most effective way to prevent disruptions in gas supply is to consistently monitor current infrastructure and address any potential issues through regular maintenance. Williams’ gathering and processing and gas transmission operations maintain system integrity to minimize disruptions by identifying potential issues and maintenance needs before a shutdown or disruption occurs. Taking proactive actions 
to maintain underground pipelines, aboveground facilities and other appurtenances effectively reduces costly service interruptions. 
This effort further perpetuates 
the affordability of natural gas 
for energy consumers. Williams’ strong operational discipline, coupled with effectively managing operational risk, keeps 
our facilities safe and secure and ensures we continue to meet customer commitments. Despite the volatility and uncertainty of 2020, Williams was able to 
quickly respond to the changing work environment and serve our customers’ needs. Our Customer Impacted Volumes (CIV, one of 
our reliability measures) metric 
can be thought of as our measure 
of volumetric reliability from the customer’s perspective. Our monthly CIV remained between 99.5% 
and 100% throughout 2020 and demonstrates our continued commitment to operations and 
our customers.The demand for affordable, reliable energy creates the need for Williams to expand our existing infrastructure. Expansion projects inherently include stakeholder engagement efforts aimed to inform communities regarding our proposed plans 
to expand. Williams consistently demonstrates our ability to work 
with a wide range of stakeholders 
in a constructive manner to address regulatory, political and community concerns to facilitate the construction of important infrastructure expansions in challenging markets. The quickly evolving regulatory landscape requires Williams 
to actively work to meet new environmental permitting requirements, implement new regulatory initiatives and articulate our actions to a broader stakeholder network. Williams actively supports efforts to collaborate to confront new challenges and expand access to affordable energy in communities across the United States. For more information on Williams’ efforts to educate the public, see the Public Perception section on page 29; 
more information on stakeholder engagement is on page 9.2012–2050 U.S. Electricity Generation**Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Annual Energy Outlook 2021 (AEO2021)Delga compressor station in Fort Worth, Texas.At Williams we work diligently every day to connect abundant supplies of domestic natural gas to those who need affordable, reliable heat and fuel. To energy consumers, access to affordable natural gas means paying less for the energy you need, and reliability means peace of mind—knowing you’ll have the energy you need, when you need it. Our current and proposed expansion projects will allow Williams to move additional volumes of natural gas to growing markets, so energy consumers can continue to realize the benefits of affordable and reliable energy. MICHAEL ATCHIE, DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY AND PROJECT OUTREACH AT WILLIAMSWILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTSupporting 
Community Access 
to Affordable EnergyThough we do not distribute our product directly to most end users, Williams provides support to communities that want to work with their local utility providers to gain access to affordable energy. For example, in 2020, Williams collaborated to help Tunkhannock, Pennsylvania, gain natural gas service. Williams provided UGI, the local utility company, access to our existing Springville pipeline. The Wyoming County Chamber of Commerce secured grant funds from the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development to support construction of the utility line. More than 80 homes and 30 businesses gained access to affordable natural gas through this project. Efforts like this not only expand the footprint of local natural gas utilization, but also allow residents and local entities the opportunity to 
have gas service. Utilizing the experience we gained in Tunkhannock, Williams will continue to guide local stakeholders in the areas where we operate regarding ways to add natural gas service in their communities.Transmission ReliabilityPercentage of deliverability based on reduction of firm transport volumes (due to unplanned and/or planned outages) vs. annual deliveries. Information is specific to our transmission business and does not include gathering and processing. Data excludes joint ventures.20172016201899.97%99.96%100.00%2019202099.99%99.88%Operations Technician Benjamin B. in the North Desoto facility in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana.Climate ChangeGRI 103-1As one of the largest energy infrastructure companies in the United States, we understand the important role natural gas plays 
in a viable and sustainable future. 
We also understand the need to address the risks of climate change. Williams will leverage our existing knowledge, capabilities and technology to focus on immediate opportunities to mitigate climate change risk, scale renewables and build a clean energy economy. In 2020, we announced our climate commitment, setting a near-term 
goal of a 56% absolute reduction from 2005 levels in company-wide greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, which puts us on a trajectory to be net zero carbon emissions by 2050. 
For additional information on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from our operations, see page 40. Natural gas is an integral part of the low-carbon future, particularly when it comes to displacing higher-emission fuels such as coal and heating oil. Natural gas emits about half as 
much carbon dioxide as coal and 30% less than oil, as well as far 
fewer pollutants, per unit of energy delivered. The transition to natural gas from coal and other high-emission fuels has accounted for much of 
the decrease in greenhouse gas emissions from the United States electric sector in recent years. 
The United States is the world’s largest producer of natural gas, 
and exported liquefied natural gas can also help reduce the need for coal-powered generation in other parts of the world, further reducing global greenhouse gas emissions.Natural gas is the largest source 
of electric power generation in the United States. It is also a reliable 
fuel source, making it the ideal partner for intermittent renewable energy sources like wind and solar power. Coupling gas-fired plants with renewable energy, such as solar, can help promote clean energy reliability.Williams is working to deliver 
clean energy while increasing 
our capabilities to reduce our 
own emissions and identifying renewable sources of energy to 
our customers. For information 
on managing our operational greenhouse gas emissions, see 
the Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions section on page 38.Cumulative Emissions Reductions From Displacing Coal*885Market Share (U.S. Net Generation All Sectors)90070%755800Million Metric Tons of CO2 Savings60%68570062950%60052740%50039638037640030%27730020%2021872008810%635610000%20082009200720102011201220132014201520162017201820192006Cumulative CO2 Savings From Shift Towards Natural Gas and Increase in Non-Carbon Generation Since 2005Coal Market ShareNatural Gas Market Share*Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Net Generation From All Sectors; Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions.StrategyGRI 103-2Our climate strategy provides an immediate, practical and affordable solution for reducing emissions by providing cleaner natural gas to reduce electricity generated from oil and coal. Natural gas is also key to supporting the scaling of renewable energy to the power grid in large volumes. In 2020, we expanded 
our focus on renewable energy and emerging opportunities to execute right here, right now opportunities while also focusing on our 
roadmap to achieving our climate commitments and innovations for 
the future. Our strategy to address the risks and opportunities of 
climate change includes: »	Connecting the best natural 
gas supplies to the lowest 
cost markets to maximize transportation efficiency, 
improve cost-effectiveness and significantly reduce emissions;»	Funding and participating in research related to emissions detection, quantification and reduction technologies;»	Exploring and implementing 
clean energy opportunities, including renewable natural 
gas, solar energy, hydrogen 
and carbon capture and storage; »	Advocating for sound, actionable energy and climate change policies; and »	Collaborating with peer companies through key industry initiatives and trade organization involvement to uncover and implement innovative best practices.Williams views our commitment 
to environmental protection, 
climate-related practices and sustainability as fundamental 
to our business practices and includes it in our corporate strategy process. Williams utilizes scenario analysis in our corporate strategy process to identify and test plausible scenarios of the future focusing 
on industry market fundamentals.We develop and vet the scenarios against publicly available projections to test our strategic assumptions. 
We then evaluate the range of potential impacts on our business and identify strategic risks and opportunities for each scenario. 
In 2020, one such scenario—green transformation—evaluated an accelerated renewables penetration scenario, driven primarily by decarbonization policies and public sentiment and its influence on 
our business. Our expanded focus on renewables and emerging opportunities will provide options for growth in this scenario.To increase transparency and respond to growing interest in 
our climate-related practices and performance, we are working to align our climate change reporting with 
the recommendations established 
by the Financial Stability Board’s 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. For additional information on how Williams manages the risks and opportunities of climate change, see our response to the 
CDP climate change questionnaire.GovernanceGRI 103-3Our commitment to mitigating climate change risk extends to all levels of the organization, from front-line employees to the board of directors. The board oversees the effectiveness of the company’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) risk management approach and ensures that senior leadership focuses on relevant sustainability matters, including climate change. While climate-related topics can arise within the purview of each board committee as well as the full board, the governance and sustainability committee has oversight for ESG strategy and policies. The governance and sustainability committee has responsibility for providing general direction on decisions regarding the sustainability of the business and tracking the 
ESG strategy. This includes reviewing Williams’ environmental and climate-related initiatives. The committee regularly reports to the 
full board of directors on relevant topics for further discussion.Climate change topics also periodically arise within the environmental, health and 
safety committee, which has responsibility for environmental issues, including environmental sustainability. Specifically, the committee provides oversight on compliance with applicable and proposed environmental legislation, regulations and orders; conformance with industry standards and 
best practices; asset reliability; operational risk management; and asset integrity plans and programs.The audit committee provides guidance for legal and fiduciary obligations with respect to accounting, financial reporting auditing and internal controls. As a part of this oversight, 
the committee has responsibility to discuss policies around our Enterprise Risk Management framework, which includes risk categories linked to climate change.Williams’ management level ESG director is tasked with developing and executing our strategy for increasing ESG integration, raising the visibility of our ESG capabilities and engaging with shareholders 
to understand ESG expectations 
and communicate our performance. To align these responsibilities with our corporate strategy, the ESG director reports to Williams’ senior vice president of corporate strategic development. In 2020, Williams created a renewables and emerging opportunities team to evaluate 
clean energy and renewable 
natural gas opportunities, and to 
help inform Williams’ climate and corporate strategies.To promote strong governance over environmental practices, Williams established a target to reduce loss 
of primary containment (LOPC) events, including the unplanned 
or uncontrolled release of methane. Achieving this target influences short-term, annual incentives for 
all employees eligible for our 
Annual Incentive Program (AIP). 
We weighted the goal at 5% of 
our 2020 AIP for all employees including the C-suite. For more information about our AIP, see the Employee Benefits on page 82.Risk ManagementGRI 201-2Climate change may create physical risks to our business. A decrease 
in energy use due to climate change may affect our financial condition through decreased revenues. Extreme climate conditions generally require more system backup, which can add costs and contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Our assets and operations, particularly those located offshore, as well as our customers’ assets and operations can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, landslides, tornadoes, fires and other weather conditions such as extreme or unseasonable temperatures.Our primary objective is to be 
a leader in safely delivering the 
products people rely on for electricity generation, heating and cooking 
while contributing to the clean energy economy. We believe that successfully managing our ESG performance strongly correlates to our ability to mitigate risk and deliver long-term value to shareholders. We integrate climate-related considerations as a component of operational risk, which we incorporate into key business planning and our annual operational risk management processes.An annual Strategic Risk survey is conducted to assess, score and prioritize risks that could impact Williams’ strategic objectives. Williams has identified 30 risk categories that are consolidated 
into four classifications: Strategic, Operational, Compliance and Reporting. Elements of climate change risk are integrated into 
the 30 risk categories.Participants of the Strategic Risk survey include vice presidents and above and other key management and risk owners. Participants score each of the 30 risks on the degree of impact and likelihood of occurrence, as well as provide perspectives 
on existing control effectiveness 
and perceived risk tolerance. Top risks identified from the survey are provided to executive management to validate, agree on risk tolerance, and assign executive accountability and are then presented to the board of directors annually during the strategy board meeting.Our business continuity planning 
and training includes potential impacts from future weather and climate events, and helps Williams employees appropriately respond when such challenges arise. As 
part of our operating process, we incorporate sufficient resiliency into our operations and systems based on historical weather patterns in the different regions where we operate. We have observed an increase 
in annual severe weather events impacting our facilities, and we 
are taking that into account in 
our evaluations. We are actively assessing both acute and chronic physical risk trends in our areas 
of operations.We have faced, and will likely continue to face, opposition to 
the operation and expansion 
of our pipelines and facilities from governmental officials, environmental groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups and others. While natural gas is critical to the clean energy economy, we recognize that stakeholder opposition may affect our ability to maintain and expand our operations. For more information on public perception, see page 29. Increasing scrutiny and changing stakeholder expectations regarding our ESG practices may also expose us to new or additional reputational risks and/or cost of capital risks. 
Our investors’ increased focus and activism related to ESG and similar matters may hinder access to capital and our ability to sustain share price valuations. Adaptation to investor 
or other stakeholder standards is 
an important way of protecting the company value, regardless of whether there is a legal requirement to do so. As part of our corporate strategy, we are working to understand and align with investor ESG expectations. We are increasing transparency related to our climate change performance, including through our annual sustainability report and the CDP climate change questionnaire.Climate change regulations may expose us to additional risk as 
well. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, many of which are related to 
climate change and greenhouse 
gas emissions. These regulations may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and expenditures above 
our expectations if we do not 
factor them into our current risk management strategy.Climate change regulations and associated costs could result in increased operations and maintenance costs, new emission control expenditures at our facilities or administrative changes to our greenhouse gas compliance program. Using an estimate of $8 
per metric ton CO2e in 2021, the estimated gross expense to offset Williams 2020 Scope 1 emissions would be $83,440,000 USD, which could be potentially reduced by customer agreements. We continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments related to climate change in addition to pursuing efforts to voluntarily reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our facilities. We are also taking steps 
to operationalize an internal cost of carbon to drive emissions reduction projects before that future regulatory risk is actualized. This internal cost 
of carbon will be an evaluation factor to reinforce projects and work practices that are most impactful in reducing our operational greenhouse gas emissions. Williams’ internal 
cost of carbon will consider external carbon market values to ensure 
that we are spending our capital in 
a competitive and meaningful way. This mindset of mitigating risks in 
a way that delivers long-term value 
to shareholders also drives our integration of cleaner energies and technologies, which will help to mitigate climate change regulation risk as well. For additional information on the risks and opportunities of 
climate change, see our 2020 CDP Response. For a full list of Williams’ risk factors, including those related to climate change, see our 2020 10-K Annual Report.Programs 
& InitiativesRenewable Natural Gas Williams is working to deliver clean and reliable natural gas while identifying renewable sources of 
fuel that meet customer needs. In 2020, Williams joined the Leadership Advisory Board on the Coalition for Renewable Natural Gas—a public policy advocacy and education platform for the renewable natural gas industry in North America. The coalition advocates for sustainable development, deployment and utilization of renewable natural 
gas so that present and future generations will have access to domestic, renewable, clean fuel and energy. The coalition’s sustainable methane abatement and recycling timeline initiative intends to capture and control methane from more than 40,000 organic waste sites in North America by 2050.Williams delivers renewable natural gas by partnering with renewable energy developers in Washington, Idaho, Ohio and Texas to transport methane emissions captured from landfills or dairy farms where the methane is a byproduct of the waste decomposition process. Methane produced from the waste is a renewable fuel and is captured as biogas rather than being released directly into the atmosphere. Williams’ pipeline systems are interconnected with six renewable natural facilities, four of which are 
on Northwest Pipeline.HydrogenAs a midstream industry leader, we believe we can successfully leverage our business as the world moves to a low-carbon future, while helping our customers and stakeholders meet their climate goals. Hydrogen offers versatility as a method for energy storage, a source of fuel and even feedstock for various industrial- 
and energy-related processes.Williams is currently evaluating the use of clean hydrogen produced from renewable power and electrolysis or methane reforming, coupled with carbon capture, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions within selected compression applications. We are also studying the impact of blending clean hydrogen with natural gas in our pipeline infrastructure. This key tool for decarbonization could reduce downstream greenhouse gas emissions for customers along our infrastructure network and aid them 
in achieving their own emissions reduction objectives. Williams will also be evaluating the potential 
of our processing facilities and compression assets, coupled 
with clean hydrogen sourced from renewable power and electrolysis, 
to generate synthetic natural gas 
and distribute to our customer 
base. Processes such as synthetic natural gas production reduce carbon dioxide and utilize hydrogen with no adverse impact on existing pipeline infrastructure. While ongoing research efforts advance hydrogen transportation solutions—such as more efficient compression, blending, liquefaction and others—ammonia presents itself as a suitable carrier for large-scale storage and long-term transportation of clean hydrogen. Hydrogen molecules can be paired with nitrogen to make clean ammonia, which can be disassociated at the point of hydrogen demand or utilized as ammonia. Williams possesses the capability 
and the expertise to transport liquid ammonia as demonstrated by our existing ammonia business near the Houston Ship Channel.Williams is a founding board 
member of the Clean Hydrogen Future Coalition, a newly launched coalition that supports the adoption of clean hydrogen in the United States. Together with fellow energy companies, labor unions, utilities, nongovernmental organizations, equipment suppliers and project developers, we will identify specific actions that the United States can take to create and scale the clean hydrogen economy. Williams is actively evaluating opportunities to collaborate with the U.S. Department of Energy and industry-funded 
pilot projects and will participate 
in research with institutions such 
as the University of Oklahoma.Carbon Capture, 
Utilization & Storage To achieve net zero emissions by mid-century, the world will need to leverage carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) to decarbonize hard-to-abate industrial applications. Williams already captures carbon dioxide at some of our gas processing and treatment plants, where the carbon dioxide is removed primarily to make the gas safe for handling. At our Dilley treatment facility in Texas, we capture an amine vent stream, which is primarily carbon dioxide, and inject it into an underground disposal well. At our Parachute Creek gas processing plant in Colorado, we capture carbon dioxide through amine treatment of the gas stream and provide that as 
a feedstock for industrial chemical production. Williams is currently evaluating numerous carbon 
capture opportunities from our current and future operations for utilization or storage, to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions.These are difficult projects to get up and going and one of 
the big issues is access to the interstate pipeline grid. We’ve had a great partnership with Williams and they’ve helped us work through the technical challenges and some of the costs associated with getting renewable natural gas from a project like this into the pipeline grid. DAN EVANS, PRESIDENT OF PROMUS ENERGY AND 
PARTNER IN WASHINGTON DAIRY RNG PROJECTDirector of Operations Briana S. and Senior Operations Technician Brad G. at the Transco compressor station in Virginia.Public PerceptionGRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3Natural gas is a critical component 
of today’s energy mix and one of the most important tools to aggressively displace more carbon-intensive 
fuels such as coal and heating oil. The International Energy Agency 
has credited natural gas with 
helping the United States be a 
world leader in reducing emissions. Yet while this energy source is vital 
to transitioning to a low-carbon economy, we recognize there is public and regulatory opposition 
to natural gas development. Williams plays an active role in educating and engaging communities, customers, nongovernmental organizations, industry associations and government officials to understand different perspectives 
and explore collaborative solutions built on open communication.Helping stakeholders understand 
the environmental and social 
benefits of natural gas is essential 
to progressing the world’s energy transition to clean and renewable energy as well as reduces the risks to our business strategy that may originate from misinformation.Managing public perception 
and educating stakeholders about our products is an enterprise-wide endeavor supported by key 
business functions, including investor relations, communications, government affairs, community outreach and executive management. All Williams 
employees have a role in managing the perception of our business. 
The Williams Ambassador program provides tools for employees to have quality, fact-based conversations about Williams and our role in the clean energy future with friends, family and colleagues.We host town hall and community meetings in person, when appropriate, to listen to feedback and discuss the benefits of our projects to local communities, the environment and the economy. We will continue our strong leadership efforts to advocate for a clean energy economy that includes natural 
gas. For example, in 2020, we led the formation of an industry group 
called Natural Allies to educate the general public on the benefits of clean and affordable natural gas. 
In 2020, Natural Allies ran a pilot program in Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Texas to measure and refine the effectiveness of 
our messages to locally and federally elected leaders. For more information on public policy, see page 30.Perception of Williams’ Mission Statement*Perception of the 
Natural Gas Industry*Perception of Natural Gas in the U.S. Clean Energy Economy*32% strongly favorable57% somewhat favorable12% somewhat unfavorable9% strongly unfavorable25% strongly favorable51% somewhat favorable2% no opinion/never heard17% somewhat unfavorable5% strongly unfavorable83% should be17% should 
not be*Source: Williams Community Branding ResearchPublic PolicyNatural gas will continue to play 
an important role in energy transition 
by complementing renewable 
energy sources and displacing higher-carbon-emitting fossil fuels. Williams’ growth depends on support for energy infrastructure expansion in North America. Government policies at the federal, state and local levels affect our existing operations and future project plans. Williams works with government stakeholders 
and regulatory agencies on topics 
related to Williams’ operations 
and on energy policies. In 2020, 
we engaged on a variety of issues 
at the state and federal levels, 
including energy infrastructure policies, permitting reform and modernization, and pipeline safety.Our government affairs and outreach teams have primary responsibility 
for engaging policymakers and 
other government stakeholders on our projects and policy positions.In 2020, Williams implemented 
a comprehensive stakeholder management system to enhance engagement with these individuals through newsletters and other corporate communications. The 
new system will also allow Williams 
to better track support for company initiatives we implement.Following the emergence and rapid spread of COVID-19, many states issued stay-at-home orders intended to slow transmission of the virus. Much of Williams’ workforce operates our infrastructure assets, work that requires in-person monitoring and maintenance. These workers continued reporting to their offices or sites during the pandemic, following federal, state and Williams-specific health safety guidelines. Our government affairs team worked with state officials and kept the Williams workforce updated on rapidly changing local requirements.The government affairs and 
outreach teams collaborate with 
local government stakeholders to discuss our project work and address questions and concerns. For example, Williams discussed the results of the Dynamic Delivery, America’s Evolving Oil and Natural Gas Transportation Infrastructure National Petroleum Council study on a panel with the Bipartisan Policy Center and on a podcast with the Center for Strategic and International Studies. These engagement efforts help advance industry knowledge and broaden public understanding of our industry.In late 2020, Williams leadership started outreach and engagement with incoming President Joe 
Biden’s transition team staff to educate them on the company, 
our climate commitment and 
focus on future innovations. Williams is demonstrating the sincerity of its new and ambitious 56% by 2030 and net zero by 2050 corporate-wide emissions reductions targets in both word and deed. A key component 
of their pledge is the commitment to advancing and developing the energy ecosystems of the future—from highly efficient, 
industry-leading natural gas infrastructure to their strategic investments in solar energy, renewable and bio-gases, hydrogen and carbon capture, utilization and sequestration. 
The ability to listen, adapt and lead is a hallmark of Williams corporate leadership. DAVID L. GOLDWYN, PRESIDENT OF GOLDWYN GLOBAL STRATEGIES, LLCExecutive Assistant Kelly S. and Contract Analyst Ambar M. in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Trade AssociationsGRI 102-13Williams belongs to a number of trade associations at the national, state and local levels. The trade associations we engage with have varied positions on key public policy issues that are often, but not always, aligned with those of Williams. 
We work to engage with trade associations that share our public policy positions. Examples of the major trade associations we engaged with in 2020 are listed below.»	American Petroleum Institute»	American Society of 
Mechanical Engineers»	American Society 
of Safety Engineers»	Association of Oil Pipelines»	The Business Roundtable»	Clean Hydrogen Future Coalition»	Coalition for Renewable 
Natural Gas»	Common Ground Alliance»	Consumer Energy Alliance»	Energy Infrastructure Council»	GPA Midstream»	Interstate Natural Gas 
Association of America»	Marcellus Shale Coalition»	National Society of 
Professional Engineers»	Northwest Gas Association»	Pipeline Research 
Council International»	Southern Gas AssociationContinued active membership and leadership roles in trade associations help us amplify the industry voice and collectively work on public 
policy priorities.For example, Williams is a member of Energy Infrastructure Council (EIC), and our chief executive officer serves on the board and on the board’s ESG Working Group.Through this partnership, we are leading the way on transparent reporting. Williams recently 
co-chaired an initiative with EIC 
to launch the first-ever midstream company ESG reporting template. This important development 
will allow all midstream energy infrastructure companies to coalesce and present the sustainability metrics that matter most to investors in a transparent and comparable way. We look forward to widespread adoption by both the midstream industry and investment community. For more information, see our 
EIC template.Williams discloses all expenditures 
of corporate funds used for nondeductible lobbying and political expenditures on our website.Political ContributionsGRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 415-1Williams makes bipartisan political contributions that support the advancement of the company’s interests and those of our industry. Before Williams contributes to candidate campaigns, our legal department reviews the proposed contribution to confirm compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, the governance 
and sustainability committee 
annually reviews the company’s political contributions.We created the WILLCO PAC, Williams’ political action committee, in 1985. This nonprofit committee, which is registered with the Federal Election Commission, is an independent, nonpartisan entity 
that raises contributions from 
eligible Williams employees to support candidates for congressional and state offices where permitted 
by law. Employee participation in WILLCO PAC is strictly voluntary.WILLCO PAC giving and corporate political giving include bipartisan contributions to federal and state campaign committees and candidates for elected office, where permitted 
by law, to support policies that 
enable the delivery of all forms 
of clean energy. In addition to PAC giving, in 2020 Williams made corporate political contributions at the state-level to members of both political parties totaling $127,100.We comply with lobbying registration requirements and verify that 
our contract lobbyists are in compliance. The Center for Political Accountability’s CPA-Zicklin Index measures political disclosure and accountability policies and practices for election-related spending by S&P 500 companies. Williams scored over 90% on this comprehensive ratings Index, ranking as a “trendsetter” company. We provide a link on our website to the Office of the Clerk for the U.S. House of Representatives where our federal disclosures for lobbying activities are available, including our aggregate spending for lobbying and payments to lobbying service providers. We also provide yearly political corporate contribution reports and reports of corporate funds expenditures to trade associations. Economic DevelopmentThe United States has an abundant supply of natural gas. By responsibly harnessing this local resource, 
we can help reduce the country’s demand for foreign energy, spur 
local economic development 
and positively influence global economies. Williams supports economic development in the areas where we operate by creating jobs, investing in civic improvements and working with local service providers. Williams also brings economic benefits to local governments through taxes. 
In 2020, we were charged $189 million in property taxes across our locations. We have contributed more than 
$230 million in total Employer Federal Insurance Contribution Act taxes over the past five years.Williams continues to maintain memberships in several state and local chambers of commerce and related economic development organizations. Membership in 
these organizations provides Williams the opportunity to interact with small businesses to understand their needs and concerns, as well 
as communicate the local and 
global benefits of our projects and infrastructure investments. The following are examples of recent Williams projects that support local economic development in the areas where we operate.Leidy South ProjectThe project is supporting the expansion of Williams’ existing Pennsylvania energy infrastructure designed to connect robust supplies of natural gas in northern and western Pennsylvania with growing natural gas demand centers along the Atlantic Seaboard. In addition 
to the direct workforce, Williams 
also engaged six local firms for engineering and road-related 
work. Leidy South is anticipated 
to be placed into service in 2021.An economic impact analysis of the project indicated the facilities would generate $100 million in economic activity for Pennsylvania. Additionally, analysts forecast the project will support 680 jobs with combined earnings of $28 million and produce $1.3 million in state tax revenue. These projections are based on 
data provided by Williams and 
were generated by a third-party research firm using sophisticated research software.Bluestem Pipeline 
Expansion Project Williams completed construction of the Bluestem Pipeline expansion project and put it into service in 2020. This project provides a critical connection to allow Williams to transport natural gas liquids from Conway, Kansas, to Kingfisher, Oklahoma. The Bluestem Pipeline expansion created 800 jobs required to manage and construct this important project.We provide locally hired individuals with opportunities to develop technical and leadership skills 
that will benefit them throughout 
their careers. As one of the 
larger employers in many smaller communities, Williams proudly offers job opportunities to local talent to allow them to stay and prosper in 
the communities they call home. Our efforts to hire locally include career fairs, employee referral programs and hiring bonuses in remote areas. We also support technical schools, colleges and universities through partnerships and scholarships to develop a pool of future candidates.Regional Energy 
Access Project We work to analyze the potential 
and real outcomes of our expansion projects. By better understanding the current economic impacts of existing operations in our footprint, we can effectively share information about these benefits with local organizations. In 2020, Williams commissioned Rutgers University, a public 
land-grant research university, to conduct an economic analysis of our proposed Regional Energy Access project. This study evaluated the project benefits in both Pennsylvania and New Jersey, indicating significant economic benefits at the state and county levels. We will use the regional outcomes of this study 
to inform stakeholders about the forthcoming benefits of the project. Additionally, Williams engaged Wilkes University to assess the impacts 
of our projects at a more localized level. The study results will aid the company in how to inform local stakeholders about project benefits.North DeSoto facility in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana.