CEO Letter GRI 102-14 For more than a century, Williams has been providing the essential infrastructure that safely delivers natural gas. With the growing urgency to transition to a low-carbon fuel future, our strategy provides a practical and immediate path to reduce industry emissions, support the viability of renewables and grow a clean energy economy. Our roots run deep, and today we handle about a third of the natural gas in the United States that is used every day to reliably and affordably heat our homes, cook our food and generate our electricity. We work hard to maintain our reputation as a responsible and dependable business that delivers on our promises, and our four Core Values are engrained in how we do our work every day on behalf of our stakeholders. Authentic A culture of authenticity, integrity and open communication is at the heart of Williams. We are transparent about the opportunities and challenges that come with transporting natural gas as a reliable source of clean fuel, heat and power, so in the spirit of open communication, we met with institutional investors in 2019 to better understand what they wanted to see from Williams in our sustainability strategy and reporting. Aligned with our commitment to transparency, we are pleased to address Sustainable Accounting Standards Board disclosures in this report. Further, we are exploring how to address the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Safety Driven We continue to drive a safety-first culture by training and empowering our people to complete projects, perform maintenance and operate our assets in a way that continuously improves the industry standard. Every employee has full stop work authority when they recognize a safety issue and are empowered to shut down our activities to make it right. In 2019, we implemented Shifting Gears, a new reward program to recognize employees for identifying and mitigating workplace hazards, and thanks to the ongoing efforts of our employees, we beat our 2019 goal for reducing recordable injuries by 200% and updated our 2020 goal to improve even further. Reliable Partners Demand for clean, reliable natural gas is at an all-time high, particularly in markets where it has had a direct impact on significantly improving regional air quality. In 2019, we demonstrated our ability to work with a wide range of stakeholders in a constructive manner to address regulatory, political and community concerns while still permitting and building important infrastructure expansions in challenging markets. We also adopted new ways of partnering with more environmentally and socially conscious suppliers and contractors, and we are now in the process of rolling out the new policies across Williams in 2020. Responsible Stewards Doing what is right for our environment and our communities is critical to our ability to manage risk and deliver long-term value to stakeholders. We invest in responsible environmental stewardship as part of every project and reducing methane emissions is a critical component of our climate strategy. In 2019, we implemented a methane emissions reduction initiative in the northeast to identify new opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across our gathering and processing operations. We also entered a partnership to implement a dairy biogas project in Washington expected to go into service in 2020, which we estimate will offset approximately 50,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions each year. Stewardship also means being a good neighbor, and we are always seeking opportunities to partner with our communities, invest in local priorities and respond to community concerns. Through our 2019 charitable giving efforts, we invested $9.7 million in the communities where we operate, and our employees donated 33,000 hours of volunteer manpower at organizations across the United States. Of course, as I write this letter, supporting our communities has taken on even greater importance as our world has changed in ways we couldn’t have imagined due to the ongoing impact of COVID-19. First and foremost, Williams has taken action to safeguard the health and safety of our employees. As a critical natural gas infrastructure provider, we maintain robust plans and contingencies to ensure business and operational continuity. We continue to make immediate changes to business practices to stay aligned with federal and state guidelines related to coronavirus. We also are monitoring the volatility in the energy market and the potential impact this will have in those communities whose livelihood comes from this industry. That’s why in March 2020, we funded an additional $1 million to the Williams Foundation for COVID-19 relief, and we accelerated payment on budgeted grants to first responders, food pantries and other social service agencies. Williams has also taken steps to safeguard the company and our shareholders amid the severe disruption in the energy market. The adoption of the Shareholders Rights Plan in March 2020 was intended to protect the interests of our shareholders by reducing the likelihood that any person or group could take advantage of volatile markets and gain control of the company through open market accumulation or other tactics without paying a fair value for the company. We often take our warm and well-lit homes for granted, but it has taken great dedication, extra effort and resourcefulness to keep our most basic energy needs available during these disruptive times. At Williams, we view sustainability as synonymous with strong business fundamentals, and this letter outlines just a few of our accomplishments in 2019. We strongly believe that natural gas has been — and will continue to be — a cornerstone of our nation’s prosperity in the 21st century. Natural gas has driven significant reductions in U.S. CO2 emissions, lowered consumers’ utility bills and paved the way for investment in renewables. Looking forward, we will continue to respond to evolving market dynamics as we responsibly manage our environmental, social and governance performance and meet the financial expectations of our shareholders. As interest around a clean energy future accelerates, our strategy provides significant solutions that we can execute on today. We look forward to continuing this journey we’ve been on for over a century. Alan S. Armstrong, President and Chief Executive Officer 2019 Sustainability Report WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Williams Participation in National Petroleum Council Study Williams supports government-led research efforts to advance industry knowledge and broaden public understanding of our industry. In 2019, Williams’ president and chief executive officer led Dynamic Delivery, America’s Evolving Oil and Natural Gas Transportation Infrastructure, a National Petroleum Council (NPC) study on energy infrastructure requested by the U.S. Secretary of Energy. The purpose of the study was to determine the future need for U.S. oil and gas infrastructure under a variety of supply and demand scenarios. The study found that natural gas will continue to be a significant part of meeting the nation’s energy demand through the study horizon of 2040 — even in low carbon demand scenarios. The study also highlighted the resiliency of natural gas infrastructure today and recommended research and development opportunities that can take our industry to the next level of safety and efficiency. Global energy systems need to undergo a major transformation over the next 30 years to reduce carbon emissions. The current federal permitting policies are a key challenge to achieving this transformation. The NPC study calls on Congress to address this problem by clarifying the National Environmental Protection Act permit process. The study also recommends enacting a comprehensive national policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Bipartisan actions by Congress and the Executive Branch in response to the study, including mechanisms to expedite the permitting process for large infrastructure projects, represent positive steps in the right direction. Market Share (U.S. Net Generation All Sectors)Cumulative Emissions Reductions from Displacing Coal 70% 900 800 700 500 400 300 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% Natural Gas Market Share Coal Market Share Cumulative CO2 Savings from Shift Toward Natural Gas and Increase in Non-Carbon Generation Since 2005 Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Net Generation from All Sectors; Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions One of the key findings of the study was that even in the low-carbon, high-renewable demand scenarios, natural gas will continue to play a leading role in meeting our nation’s energy demand throughout the study time horizon of 2040. AMY SHANK, DIRECTOR OF PIPELINE INTEGRITY, SAFETY AND OPERATIONAL DISCIPLINE; CHAIR OF THE COORDINATING SUBCOMMITTEE Million Metric Tons of CO2 Savings About Williams SASB EM-MD-000.A and GRI 102-1; 102-2; 102-4; 102-6; 102-7; 102-8; 102-16; 102-40; 102-42; 102-43; 102-44 Williams is committed to being the leader in providing infrastructure that safely delivers natural gas products to reliably fuel the clean energy economy. Williams is a publicly traded Fortune 500 company with nearly 4,800 employees. Based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, our operations span 26 U.S. states, including in the Gulf of Mexico, Rockies, Pacific Northwest and Eastern Seaboard regions. We own an interest in and operate 28 processing facilities, seven natural gas liquid (NGL) fractionation facilities and approximately 23 million barrels of NGL storage capacity. We deliver natural gas and NGL to markets with the greatest demand. Our transmission, gas gathering and liquids pipelines serve utilities, power generators, industrial customers and liquefied natural gas facilities. Williams owns and operates more than 30,000 miles of pipelines systemwide — including Transco, the nation’s largest volume and fastest growing pipeline — and handles approximately 30% of the natural gas in the United States that is used every day for clean power generation, heating and industrial use. See our 2019 Filing 10-K Annual Report for our financial data. Williams recognizes the important role natural gas plays in fueling the clean energy economy of today and tomorrow, particularly when it comes to displacing or providing alternatives to more polluting fuels. Natural gas is helping to significantly reduce emissions from the electric generation sector. It is also the ideal partner for renewable energy since it can quickly and reliably provide power when wind and solar resources are not available. Increased natural gas production coupled with a growing renewable energy market have helped the United States reduce carbon emissions to the lowest levels since 1988. Since 2005, our infrastructure has helped the United States decrease greenhouse gas emissions by 33 million metric tons — the equivalent of removing 7,006,369 gasoline-powered cars from the road for a year. From 2005–2018, natural gas as a percent of total electricity generation in the United States has doubled1. At the same time, related CO2 emissions decreased by 27%2. Our Core Values Our Core Values are ingrained in how we do our work every day on behalf of our stakeholders. Authentic  Safety Driven  Reliable Performers  Responsible Stewards  Our integrity cannot be  Safeguarding our  We stand behind  We are dedicated  compromised; for more than  people and neighbors  our reputation as  to strengthening our  a century we’ve remained  is ingrained in our  a dependable and  people and communities  true to ourselves, doing  culture and fundamental  trustworthy business that  and to protecting  the right thing, every time.  to everything we do.  delivers on our promises.  the environment.  1U.S. Energy Information Association Natural Gas Explained. 2U.S. Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, 2018. Williams Overview At Williams, we understand the direct link between sustainable business operations, corporate stewardship and long-term financial success. By developing natural gas infrastructure responsibly, we can position our company to create long-term value. NORTHWEST OVERLAND PASS TRANSCO GULFSTREAM Interstate Natural Gas Pipeline  Gas Plant  Rail Terminal  Natural Gas Gathering Pipeline  Fractionator  Offshore Platform  Natural Gas Liquids Pipeline  Storage  Supply Area Basin  Oil Gathering Pipeline  Amine Treating Plant  Operational Activity  Williams by the Numbers Total Number of Permanent Employees by Region Atlantic-Gulf 1,229 Northeast 1,374 West 1,127 Tulsa Headquarters 1,063 Operations Technician Lead Garrett Reese at the Harrison Hub facility in Scio, Ohio. WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Integrating ESG Management Across Our Operations The Williams Integrated Management System defines how we identify and mitigate operational risk to our people, assets and the environment. It drives integrated environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices into our everyday operations with the goal of making Williams a more sustainable company. The Williams Integrated Management System applies to all Williams employees, contractors, operating assets, projects and offices. We reference how we use our Integrated Management System to manage Williams’ key ESG topics throughout this report. Stakeholder Engagement In 2019, Williams engaged a diverse group of stakeholders, including employees, landowners, customers, industry associations, local communities, Native American tribes, investors and suppliers to understand different perspectives. Any stakeholder interaction with Williams is an important opportunity to demonstrate our Core Values. We pride ourselves on being an accessible and responsible corporate citizen in the communities where we serve and operate. We prioritize engagements with stakeholder groups that influence our business or are directly affected by our operations. Williams regularly interacts with stakeholders using a variety of mechanisms, including in-person meetings, social media, open houses and community events. We work to identify the best engagement approach for each unique stakeholder group. Our objective is to maintain and strengthen relationships by understanding local needs, listening to stakeholder priorities and identifying opportunities to collaborate. Conducted 40 meetings with Native American tribes We actively pursue stakeholder feedback because it is critical to building collaborative relationships that develop appropriate solutions. Industry groups are an important source and representation of stakeholder concerns regarding environmental issues. Williams participates in various external sustainability initiatives, including Our Nation’s Energy Future Coalition, Inc. (ONE Future), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Natural Gas STAR program and American Petroleum Institute Environmental Partnership to demonstrate our commitment to understanding stakeholder concerns and to reducing emissions from our operations. In recent years, some of Williams’ investors have asked for more insight into our sustainability practices. We are working to increase transparency related to our ESG performance, including through our Sustainability Report and the CDP climate change questionnaire. In 2019, we met with institutional investors to solicit feedback on our 2018 Sustainability Report. We used the feedback provided to inform the development of this year’s report. Participated in 33 investor interactions featuring Williams management Maintained relationships with more than 100,000 landowners About This Report GRI 102-46; 102-47; 102-50; 102-52; 102-53 Our annual Sustainability Report uses both qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and performance in environmental, social and governance areas. This 2019 Sustainability Report covers Williams’ operations from January 1, 2019, through December 31, 2019, unless otherwise indicated. The report reflects the most accurate information available at the time of publishing. In this report, Williams (which includes The Williams Companies, Inc., and our subsidiaries) is at times referred to in the first person as “we,” “our” or “the company.” In 2020, we conducted independent third-party limited assurance for select 2019 greenhouse gas emissions and safety data. See our ERM CVS Assurance Statement on page 82 for more information. Williams referenced the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards to guide the development of our 2019 Sustainability Report. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. At each stage in the report development process, we considered key reporting principles, including stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and completeness. The report content reflects our most important sustainability topics as identified through our materiality assessment. For more information or to offer comments and suggestions about this report, contact WilliamsContact@williams.com. Project Manager Nathan Salsi, Commercial Development Representative Amethyst Cavallaro and Supply Chain Manager Clem Collins in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Materiality Assessment In 2018, we conducted a materiality assessment to better understand the sustainability topics most critical to Williams and our stakeholders. As part of this process, we surveyed a cross-functional group of Williams subject matter experts, interviewed senior leadership and reviewed internal documents to identify priority topics for the business. We conducted desktop research to understand the perspectives of external stakeholders, including a media review, peer company benchmark and reporting framework evaluation. We also reviewed the alignment between the topics we identified and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The outcome of this substantive assessment resulted in 13 material topics under the pillars of environment, social and governance, detailed in this report. We plan to conduct our next materiality assessment in preparation for our 2020 Sustainability Report. We envision this to be a highly collaborative process that will build on the foundation set in 2018. As such, there were no changes to our material topics in 2019. Environment  Air Emissions  Mitigating air emissions from our operations through operational efficiency initiatives, compliance with local and regional regulations, and participation in industry research.  Internal: transmission, gas gathering, liquids pipelines, processing facilities External: local communities  Communities, Nongovernmental Organizations, Government, Customers  Biodiversity & Land Use  Managing impacts on biodiversity located near Williams’ operations and contributing to environmentally focused organizations while protecting land by properly retiring assets, preserving soil and mitigating erosion.  Internal: transmission, gas gathering, liquids pipelines, processing facilities External: local communities, environment  Nongovernmental Organizations, Landowners, Government, Native American Tribes  Climate Change  Managing the business and societal risks of rising global temperatures by expanding access to cleaner-burning natural gas while working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  Internal: all operations External: the public, investors  Nongovernmental Organizations, Customers, Communities, Government, Shareholders, Trade Associations  Environmental Stewardship  Acting as good stewards of the environment and managing environmental impacts associated with water, waste, noise and spills through compliance with applicable regulations and adherence to strong internal policies and procedures.  Internal: all operations, environmental assessment team External: local communities, environment  Nongovernmental Organizations, Communities, Customers  Social Community Engagement Safety Supply Chain Management Workforce Health & Development Governance Board Leadership Cybersecurity Ethics & Integrity Government Relations Shareholder Relations Cultivating and maintaining relations with local communities, landowners and Indigenous Peoples while supporting local economic development and charitable giving in the locations where Williams operates. Creating a safety culture that drives continuous improvement and managing the many aspects of safety at Williams, including personnel and process safety, asset and mechanical integrity, and emergency preparedness and response. Supervising the procurement of goods and services necessary for Williams’ operations, including overseeing environmental, social and governance practices, through effective policies, internal controls and audits. Promoting the health and wellness of employees through medical benefits and wellness programs while creating a positive work environment through a strong focus on employee attraction and retention, employee development and diversity and inclusion. Selecting and maintaining a capable board of directors to oversee company operations and risk management through a rigorous board selection process and executive compensation programs that incentivize long-term business success. Managing the evolving risks of cyberattacks on physical assets and business-critical information through training programs, policies and preventive measures. Embedding Williams’ Core Values into the company culture and upholding the highest standards of ethics and compliance through our Code of Business Conduct, confidential reporting mechanisms and training courses. Engaging with government officials related to Williams’ operations and advancing the company’s policy priorities. Cultivating and maintaining positive relationships with shareholders through regular engagement across several communication mechanisms, and by incorporating shareholder feedback. Internal: Williams community and project outreach team, Williams Foundation, corporate social responsibility team External: local communities Internal: all operations External: local communities, contractors, emergency responders Internal: procurement External: suppliers Internal: all operations, human resources External: local communities Internal: board of directors, executive leadership External: investors Internal: information technology, all operations External: customers, local communities Internal: all operations External: suppliers, customers, government officials, investors Internal: Williams government affairs and outreach team External operations: federal, state and local governments Internal: investor relations External: shareholders Communities, Suppliers, Employees, Nongovernment Organizations, Government, Native American Tribes Employees, Communities, Suppliers, Shareholders, Customers Suppliers, Communities, Customers Employees Shareholders Customers, Government, Public Employees, Customers, Shareholders, Landowners Government, Trade Associations Shareholders 