CEO LetterWilliams is proud to be a leading provider of large-scale energy infrastructure. Our deep-rooted operational discipline enables us to safely deliver the natural gas and natural gas products our customers and communities depend on while creating value for our shareholders. We touch 30 percent of the 
natural gas in the United States, which comes with significant responsibility—a responsibility 
to positively contribute to the communities where we operate, to prudently manage environmental impacts 
and to safeguard our employees, contractors and the public. Williams’ steadfast commitment to operating with integrity, honesty and transparency makes this possible.Execute on our commitments exceptionally well.From coast to coast, we’re deeply committed to 
reliably delivering clean natural gas to local utilities 
so consumers and businesses can enjoy affordable electricity, heat and air conditioning. In fact, every day, Williams provides more than half of New York City’s natural gas and nearly 90 percent of Washington State’s. And the natural gas liquids we produce at 
our processing plants—like ethane, propane and 
butane—become the building blocks for the manufacturing and petrochemical industries, which provide the modern consumer goods on which we all rely. We work to keep our costs competitive while reducing emissions. Our strategy to connect the best supplies 
to the best markets means natural gas is traveling shorter distances, improving cost-effectiveness and significantly reducing emissions. Operate safely in everything we do, every day.At Williams, we know that operating safely is vital 
to preserving our long-term business success. The Williams Integrated Management System coupled 
with our Core Values and Beliefs guide how we manage and reduce operational risk to people, assets and the environment. At the same time, we equip and empower all employees and contractors to create a culture of safety. Our continued focus on safety has reduced our total recordable incident rate by 38 percent since 2014. Collaborate to rapidly deliver our best solutions.Collaborating with our diverse stakeholders positively impacts society while achieving our business objectives. We engage with communities, nongovernmental organizations, industry associations and government 
to conduct collaborative research, listen to different perspectives and share our position. We also recognize the important role natural gas can play in helping to address environmental concerns about air quality and climate change, particularly when it comes to displacing other higher-emission fuels. Williams is eager to do its part to help our country meet its climate goals with low carbon natural gas solutions that are ready now.Grow our businesses, people and communities. As we work to meet the growing demand for cleaner fuel and feedstocks, we remain focused on our most important asset—our more than 5,000 employees. One of our primary goals is to attract and retain the very best talent in the energy industry, and we continually develop a knowledgeable and skilled workforce through robust training programs and strong employee engagement. Effectively growing our business requires a steadfast commitment to maintaining positive relationships with the communities we serve. We do our best to minimize the impact on people and the environment by locating our pipelines along existing rights-of-way, roadways or other utility corridors. At the same time, we work to positively impact communities through local investments and charitable giving. In fact, in 2018, we contributed $9.4 million to nearly 2,000 organizations across 45 states, and our employees volunteered more than 17,000 hours with nonprofit organizations.Sustainability grounded in sensibility is nothing new at Williams. We’ve worked to create value responsibly since our humble beginnings more than 100 years ago. Along the way, we have always adapted as required to meet the needs of our many and diverse stakeholders. Running 
our business in a way that is sustainable is an expected behavior at Williams and earns us the social license to operate. This report gives the reader a transparent view 
of what this great company strives to be every day. I’m pleased to share this sustainability report, which provides qualitative and quantitative information related to our key environmental, social and governance efforts.Alan S. Armstrong, President and Chief Executive OfficerOur StoryAt Williams, we make energy happen™. Our goal is to be the premier provider of large-scale energy infrastructure by connecting U.S. natural gas supplies to markets 
with growing demand for cleaner fuel and feedstocks. As we carry out this mission, we remain committed to 
doing the right thing. Our dedication to operational discipline extends to all aspects of the company. That means operating safely and responsibly every day 
while growing our businesses, developing our people and enhancing our communities.For more than a century, Williams has built a legacy of operating safely and efficiently while actively engaging and strengthening the communities where we operate. But we did not become a Fortune 500 company overnight. Our roots have humble beginnings. In 1908, Miller and David Williams founded a construction company in Fort Smith, Arkansas. The two brothers immediately made a name for themselves as reliable and ambitious builders who simply promised “a good job on time.” Within a few years, they were building cross-country pipelines. Since then, Williams has evolved into a modern energy infrastructure company focused primarily on natural 
gas. As an industry leader handling approximately 30 percent of the natural gas produced in the United States, our mission has never been more important. Every day, 
we safely deliver clean, reliable and affordable natural gas that people depend on for heat, electricity and modern consumer goods. We support domestic energy independence and stimulate local economies by harnessing the country’s abundant supply of natural 
gas. In addition, we complement the growing renewable energy market since natural gas can provide power when wind and solar are not available. Increased natural gas production coupled with a growing renewable energy market have helped the United States reduce carbon emissions to the lowest levels since 1988.Through a long history of acquisitions, expansions and divestments, Williams withstood the test of time and demonstrated a commitment to sustaining long-term business success. Looking forward, we will continue to respond to evolving market dynamics as we responsibly manage our environmental, social and governance performance and meet the financial expectations of 
our shareholders.Helping Reduce CO2, NOX and SOX Emissions in the United StatesThe growth of natural gas-fired generation will create continued environmental benefit by reducing sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOx) and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from the power generation sector. According 
to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, between 2005 and 2017, CO2 emissions from the electric sector declined by 3,855 million metric tons. Simply put, related CO2 emissions fell by 28 percent over that period. More than 60 percent of this total (2,360 million metric tons) was attributed to natural gas replacing coal- and oil-based generation resources. Over the same period, the CO2 emissions reduction attributable to gas-fired generation was greater than the reductions attributable to renewable energy and other non-carbon generation sources combined. Furthermore, since the mid-2000s, gas-fired generation has reduced SO2 and NOx levels 
by 84 percent and 62 percent, respectively. Sources:The Role of Natural Gas in the Transition to a Lower-Carbon Economy, Interstate Natural Gas Association of America (2019)U.S. Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, U.S. Energy Information Administration (2017)WE MAKE ENERGY HAPPEN™ SPOTLIGHT5About WilliamsThe Williams Companies, Inc., is a publicly traded energy infrastructure company with more than 5,400 employees. Based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, we own and operate midstream gathering, processing and transmission facilities in the United States, including the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Rockies, the Pacific Northwest and the Eastern Seaboard. Operating more than 30,000 miles of pipeline across 24 U.S. states, we deliver natural gas and natural gas liquids 
to the largest markets. As a responsible member of the energy industry, we support the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in its mission to provide economically efficient, safe, reliable and secure energy to consumers. Our natural gas transmission, gas gathering and liquids pipelines serve utilities, power generators and processing plants in three operating areas: Atlantic-Gulf, Northeast and West.Williams OperationsInterstate Natural Gas PipelineNatural Gas Gathering PipelineNatural Gas Liquids PipelineFractionatorGas Processing PlantOffshore PlatformUnderground StorageSupply Area7Core Values & BeliefsOur Core Values and Beliefs are the foundation on which we conduct business. As shown below, our Core Values 
and Beliefs are woven into the fabric of our organizational culture and help guide everyday activities. Williams’ right result, right way matrix is a two-dimensional approach to performance assessment that takes into consideration what employees accomplish and how they pursue those accomplishments. The right way dimension is tied to demonstrated, observable behaviors that represent our Core Values and Beliefs. IntegrityIntegrity must not be compromised. Honest relationships and trust are essential for long-term business success. We deal fairly in all our business relations.Safety & Environmental StewardshipWe are fully committed to the health and safety of our workforce and the protection of our neighbors, the environment and our assets.InvestorsWe are committed to providing our investors an attractive return over the long term.CustomersWe exist to help our external customers achieve their business objectives. To succeed, we must understand our customers’ businesses and dependably deliver what they value most.EmployeesPeople are our most valuable resource. We possess immense powers of innovation, imagination, skill—and a desire to accomplish something significant. Working as a team allows all of us to realize our full potential.CommunitiesWe recognize and enthusiastically accept our responsibility 
to the communities we serve, through acting as a good neighbor and through involvement with and support for community activities.Entrepreneurial SpiritWe maintain a corporate culture that values originality, invention and creativity, and that nurtures these qualities through openness and reverence for the entrepreneurial spirit.Tolerance for RiskOur willingness to take risks in deploying new technology 
and investing in large capital projects is central to our 
culture and success.Efficiency & EffectivenessWe continuously collaborate with our customers and within our teams to discover and apply safer, better, faster and more cost-efficient ways to provide the services our customers value.ChangeWe welcome change for the opportunities it offers.Williams Integrated 
Management SystemThe Williams Integrated Management System (WIMS) is the mechanism that brings to life our operational philosophy. 
It is the platform from which we provide policies, requirements, guidelines, procedures, standards, specifications and 
other documents to design, build, operate and maintain our assets. This enterprise-wide management system incorporates regulations, industry standards and best practices. It is also compliant with Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration requirements.WIMS applies to all our employees, operating assets, projects and offices. Senior leadership within each operating 
area is responsible for implementing appropriate operating requirements, project standards and site-specific procedures to comply with company expectations and applicable regulations. We achieve compliance with the management system requirements through demonstrated completion of all training and use of all appropriate forms 
and procedural documentation. WIMS also enables us to incorporate environmental, health and safety goals into 
our business and ensures we employ appropriate measures. WIMS consists of 12 elements that define how we manage and reduce operational risk to our people, assets and the environment. It defines common processes across the company to create efficiencies and we monitor key metrics to improve performance. There are many processes driving continuous improvement built into WIMS, including change requests, procedure reviews and internal and external audits. Additionally, many of the processes inherent to WIMS 
are critical to identifying, tracking and mitigating risk within our operations.