Strengthening CommunitiesAs a responsible steward, Williams is committed 
to positively affecting the lives of those who live 
near our assets and operations. Our employees 
work and live in the communities where we 
operate, so we take great pride in developing 
strong community relationships. We build trust by maintaining open and responsive communication 
with suppliers and community members, including landowners and Indigenous Peoples. We promote positive relationships with community stakeholders through engagement, meaningful investments and responsible supply chain management.Employee Relations and HR Policy Specialist Lindsay H. in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Community EngagementAs a good neighbor, Williams prioritizes developing and strengthening relationships with 
the communities where we operate. Williams actively engages with a variety of community stakeholders, from local business owners and community leaders to public officials and nongovernmental organizations. We employ multiple communication channels to foster open dialogue, including digital platforms, in-person meetings, newsletters and open houses. Our goal is to engage stakeholders throughout the lifecycle of our projects and operations.In 2020, we participated in more 
than 220 stakeholder engagements with local communities, including 
13 community events, six open houses, 70 phone interactions 
with Native American tribes, 
18 meetings with chambers of commerce, 14 environmental 
justice meetings and 13 meetings 
with county commissioners.Williams upholds a process for receiving, analyzing and responding to community concerns, including maintaining a dedicated email address to receive and manage 
local concerns. Williams employs 
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (FERC) voluntary pre-filing process to engage affected stakeholders prior to submittal of a formal project certificate application. Activities include public meetings and consultations with elected officials, community leaders and affected landowners. We followed this process for such projects as the Regional Energy Access project in 2020. Williams’ community and project outreach team serves as the 
central contact point for stakeholder engagement efforts related to pipeline projects. The team develops and maintains a project-specific public participation plan for major projects. We implement these plans 
through use of our Public Outreach Strategy Guide, which formally outlines Williams’ approach to community engagement and consultation. The guide emphasizes the importance of early contact, continual communication 
and being flexible whenever possible. Executive oversight 
of community engagement 
falls within the responsibility 
of both our vice president of 
communications and corporate social responsibility, and also 
the vice president of government 
affairs and public outreach.In 2020, we implemented new 
tools to better communicate 
and track engagement with stakeholders, including a new stakeholder management database that helps us inform and engage stakeholders concerning Williams’ latest expansion projects. The system allows us to successfully meet regulatory required notifications and manage interactions with stakeholders on an ongoing basis. For example, in 2020, we used 
a comprehensive stakeholder management system to conduct mailings to several hundred stakeholders regarding the Regional Energy Access pre-filing process. We then submitted the stakeholder list to the FERC as a component of our pre-filing process. Overall, the system improved Williams’ ability 
to effectively communicate project information in alignment with regulatory requirements.We are also leveraging Spark Influence, a communications tool 
that enables Williams to quickly 
and easily reach stakeholders through email and mobile messaging. This system provides 
us with the ability to communicate directly with a broad base of contacts in an efficient manner. 
In early 2020, we used the system 
to communicate our commitment 
of $1 million for COVID-19 relief. 
We also used the Spark system to distribute project-based newsletters, 
notably for the Leidy South project. We sent multiple issues of the 
Leidy South newsletter to thousands of recipients to keep interested stakeholders informed about the progress of the project.As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, Williams faced unique challenges with our traditional community engagement efforts. 
We worked to find creative solutions to engage with communities in safe, socially distant ways. For example, we conducted both in-person and virtual open houses for community members to provide additional information and listen to feedback related to Williams’ Regional Energy Access project. As part of the FERC pre-filing process, the company is required 
to hold a series of open houses to inform landowners and stakeholders about the scope and need for the proposed project. Due to the COVID-19 shutdown, the company sought creative ways to effectively inform and engage stakeholders while meeting current requirements for social distancing and limits on public gatherings. The company also sought ways to meet the public’s preference for attending either in-person or virtual meetings, and not disenfranchise any member of the public from participating in the process.Williams held three in-person and three virtual open houses in late June and early July 2020. In-person open houses included social distancing requirements, the use of masks and limits on attendance based on state protocols. We held the virtual open houses on dates aligned with the in-person events. In addition to a general project overview, Williams provided online, interactive maps, which allowed attendees the opportunity to submit comments regarding the project directly onto the maps; this an entirely new method for engaging stakeholders on the project.Williams is focused on close, proactive partnership with community members and groups. As we develop new infrastructure projects, a major priority for the company is facilitating a two-way dialogue and ensuring that community members’ questions and concerns are voiced, heard, discussed and addressed.Williams is proud of our community engagement efforts to date and consider our work in this area “best-in-class.” But we are 
also committed to continuous improvement. Environmental 
justice laws, regulations and other government policies at the state 
and federal levels are evolving quickly. Williams is currently reviewing our past performance 
and revising our environmental justice processes based on feedback from community partners and other internal and external stakeholders. We anticipate that 
our approach to environmental justice will continue to evolve in response to what we learn from 
the communities where we operate, as well as requirements in new government policies.We ultimately aim to make sure that: »	We have the right processes 
and tools in place to enable and empower community members 
in raising their questions and concerns on Williams’ projects. »	We respond quickly and make adjustments as needed based 
on the input we gather from environmental justice communities. »	We take a comprehensive 
and thoughtful approach to engaging environmental justice communities during project planning, construction and after 
a project is placed into service. »	We communicate company-wide on our approach to environmental justice and its importance. Beginning in 2021, project certificate application filings with the FERC 
will include environmental justice considerations, which, during 
the permitting process, will help Williams better evaluate the 
potential impacts of our operations on disadvantaged communities.Williams believes in the importance of building and maintaining positive relationships in the communities where we operate. 
Our community engagement efforts go well beyond what’s required, as we strive to engage stakeholders early and often about our projects and operations, to support local initiatives and to be recognized as an active and engaged member of 
the community.KYLE TARPLEY, COMMUNITY AND PROJECT OUTREACH SPECIALIST AT WILLIAMSSenior Administrative Assistant Charolette J. on Williams’ Day of Caring in Lake Charles, Louisiana.Supply Chain Specialist Julia F. on Williams’ Day of Caring in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Community InvestmentWilliams is committed to strengthening the communities where we operate by listening 
to the needs of our neighbors and supporting these needs through strategic initiatives that make a difference. We focus our community giving on initiatives that help energize employees, strengthen communities and enhance business execution. In 2020, we contributed nearly $11 million to more than 
2,200 organizations through 
our community giving channels, including cash contributions, in-kind donations and matching programs. Despite challenging business conditions, Williams increased charitable contributions from 
2019 to 2020 to provide additional 
support to communities affected 
by the pandemic. The Williams Foundation The Williams Foundation, established in 1974, helps guide our approach 
to community giving and bridges 
the gap between shareholder interests and community needs. 
The Foundation board collaborates with executive leaders and our corporate social responsibility team to develop and approve budgets 
for supporting specific charitable programs. The Williams Foundation bylaws and charitable contributions standards outline our giving 
process and safeguard the 
integrity of our contributions. Over the past 10 years, Williams 
has contributed nearly $100 million 
to support science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education; workforce readiness efforts; park and land conservation programs; first responder and disaster relief efforts and other initiatives that make communities stronger.The COVID-19 pandemic affected the lives and livelihoods of many 
in the communities where Williams operates. In 2020, the Williams Foundation contributed over $990,000 in grants to provide community support, with a primary focus on emergency response, 
food insecurity, health and human services and K-12 distance learning solutions for public schools. 
The Foundation also matched contributions from Williams’ employees to amplify their efforts.In addition to financial contributions to support COVID-19 efforts, Williams donated nearly $10,000 worth of personal protective equipment to health care workers, provided nearly $30,650 worth of restaurant gift 
cards to Tulsa health care workers 
at several hospitals and contributed hand sanitizer to organizations in Utah and Oklahoma. We also purchased two 3D printers for an employee in Danville, Pennsylvania, to print 850 face shields for a 
local hospital; the printers were 
later donated to local schools.For additional information about 
the Foundation’s investments and achievements, please see our 2020 Community Investments Report. Corporate Giving We support several charitable 
giving methods aimed at making 
a difference in local communities. Investments focus on health and human services; education; arts, culture and humanities; safety; environmental quality, protection 
and beautification; and civic betterment. In 2020, Williams added an external application process to the company website, making it easier 
for eligible nonprofit organizations 
to apply for quarterly grants. 
Williams’ operating area leaders and program area committees help identify community investments that best support the specific needs of each community. In 2020, Tulsa celebrated its 30th year in a row raising more than $1 million for the Tulsa Area United Way. Williams supported 164 United Way organizations in total. In 2020, Williams engaged a 
third-party provider to survey 
1,500 community members across 
22 states where Williams operates 
to better understand the giving priorities of our local communities. The results of the study indicate the top priorities for charitable giving are STEM education, parks and land conservation efforts, first responder support and health and human services organizations. Williams plans to use the information gathered through these surveys to help inform our community investment decisions. Below, we provide examples of charitable giving aligned with these 
key priorities.Land ConservationIn 2020, Williams partnered with 
the Arbor Day Foundation (ADF) 
on two tree planting projects, part 
of ADF’s initiative to plant more 
than 25 million trees worldwide in 2020. Our donation enabled ADF 
to plant 26,000 trees in Virginia 
and 9,290 trees in New Jersey in 2020. The two projects will create longlasting environmental benefits over the next 40 years, including sequestering 60,655 metric tons of carbon dioxide, eliminating 341 tons of air pollution and intercepting 556 million gallons of rainfall to prevent harmful storm water runoff. Additionally, with the help of Williams’ funding, the Oglebay Good Zoo in Wheeling, West Virginia, is caring 
for two female red wolves that could potentially be bred in coming years and then released into the wild 
as part of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Red Wolf Recovery Program. Red wolves are the second most endangered animal in the United States. They once roamed through the eastern states, but today only nine remain in the wild. The 
red wolves at Oglebay are among only 250 managed in captivity.EducationWe support STEM education programs to prepare students for jobs that will be increasingly critical 
to solving societal challenges. For example, in 2020, Williams began supporting OpenSciEd, a program designed to give teachers the materials, support and power to get kids excited and curious about the world around them and confident in their ability to figure it out through questioning, investigating and solving problems. The high cost of quality science materials often prevents districts from adopting the best curricula; additionally, those who invest in good programs may do it at the expense of adequate professional learning that helps teachers make necessary instructional shifts.Being freely available, OpenSciEd creates an environment where districts need not make this compromise. Since its launch in 2019, over 21,000 educators from 
all 50 states have registered with OpenSciEd to access their materials. While the program is still in the development phase, organizers maintain close contact with their 250 field test teachers and 5,000 field test students in 100 districts in 10 states. Additionally, Williams supports Trout in the Classroom, an environmental education program that teaches students how to raise trout from eggs. Through this process, students must also monitor tank water quality and engage in stream habitat study, enabling them to learn about water resources. At the end of the program, students release the trout in a state-approved stream near the school or within a nearby watershed. Throughout the year, each teacher tailors the program to best fit the individual curricular needs. Health & Human ServicesThe Williams Route 66 Marathon brings thousands of people together in Tulsa, Oklahoma, from across the world. The Charity Challenge allows runners to participate in the Williams Route 66 Marathon without paying race registration, but instead by raising money for charities that 
the race benefits. Over the years, hundreds of Williams employees have participated and run in one 
or more of the races. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, participants submitted their personal race results through an online platform as part of the marathon’s “virtual run” in 2020. Proceeds from the event benefit Kicks for Kids. Kicks for Kids is 
the Williams Route 66 Marathon’s own charity, with the mission of encouraging the health and wellness of disadvantaged Tulsa youth. Kicks for Kids pairs Williams Route 66 Marathon race directors with local elementary schools to help kids complete their first 5k during the Williams Route 66 Marathon race weekend. A local running store runs a training program for participants to help them achieve this goal. Williams Route 66 covers the registration 
fee for every student participant. 
In addition to race swag, each kid receives the mentorship of a Williams Route 66 Marathon race director.In 2019, Kicks for Kids launched 
a new program to outfit student participants with a free pair of running shoes through partnerships with local businesses and donations from fundraising runners; through this program we provided 175 students with new shoes to run the race. In 2020, due to the pandemic and school closures, Kicks for Kids instead supported 24 families during the holidays, providing groceries, 
gift cards, clothing and toys.Employee VolunteeringWilliams believes in giving both time and resources generously to make 
a difference in our communities. We support volunteer efforts by granting employees time off to volunteer with charitable organizations. Across 
the country, our employees serve 
on nonprofit boards and as mentors, coaches, committee members and volunteer firefighters. Employees are proactive in helping their communities and each other in times of need.Active involvement in the communities where our employees live and work is at the heart of Williams’ company culture. In 2020, Williams employees volunteered 18,263 hours with charitable organizations, representing 
$521,226 in value based on a 
$28.54 value per volunteer hour 
in 2020. Even though the total number of hours decreased from 2019 levels due to limited volunteer opportunities related to pandemic restrictions, our employees 
remained as committed as ever to engaging with their communities. 
To help employees maximize their contributions to local communities, we fund employee-driven charitable giving programs, including our homegrown giving and matching gifts programs. Our homegrown giving program enables employees to support the unique needs of 
their local communities through grants designed to support eligible, nonprofit organizations. Williams’ matching gifts program annually matches contributions to eligible organizations up to $10,000 per employee or board member and 
up to $5,000 per retiree.Through volunteer activities, Williams employees help conserve important natural resources in our own backyard. For example, in 2020, Williams employees in Wyoming volunteered with the Wyoming 
Game and Fish Department and 
the WYldlife Fund to plant 1,500 sagebrush seedlings that will 
help support local wildlife such 
as sage-grouse and pronghorn antelope. The goal is to reestablish the natural sagebrush, which 
is a critical part of the ecosystem.The project is part of a larger 
effort to restore land originally cleared for a well pad that is 
now being decommissioned. Our volunteers also support Williams’ objectives to promote increased education in the communities 
where we operate. For example, 
in early 2020, Williams employees volunteered for JA in a Day, a 
Junior Achievement program that connects volunteers to classrooms 
at a school for a full day of financial literacy activities.Through these activities, we can 
help teach elementary students 
early on to be responsible for 
future finances. In 2020, Williams supported Junior Achievement programs in New York, New Jersey, 
Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Texas and Washington, as well as the national organization, JA USA. This support has expanded in 2021 to include Ohio, West Virginia and Wyoming.Sequoyah Elementary School on Williams’ Day of Caring in Tulsa, Oklahoma.We would like to extend our deepest appreciation to Williams Companies for your generous support of our mission and efforts in 2020. We can’t thank you enough for rising to the occasion through creativity, significant support from your leadership 
team and establishment of an atmosphere that combined fun with purpose to deliver meaningful increases in donations. 
The year-over-year growth in support during very challenging times and circumstances truly makes Williams Companies a leader amongst leaders. CHRIS PRESTON, VICE PRESIDENT OF CORPORATE RELATIONS AT UNITED WAY WORLDWIDE2020 Community Giving 
by Program Areas23.64% health and human services20.92% 
United Way18.49% environmental quality, protection and beautification16.49% education5.91% arts, culture and humanities6.48% civic betterment6.02% safety2.05% otherSenior Vice President and General Counsel Lane W. at our virtual Route 66 Marathon in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Engineer James O. at Williams’ Day of Caring in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Indigenous PeoplesWilliams understands the 
importance of investing time to understand different cultures, traditions and beliefs, including 
those of Indigenous Peoples. 
We respect the tribal sovereignty 
of the federally recognized Native American tribes in the United States. Our goal is to build trust through open communication and regular dialogue with the 143 Native American tribes living near 
our operations.As a company with interstate pipelines regulated by the FERC, we adhere to Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act. The Act requires consultation on all activities that may affect property of cultural or religious significance to tribes. As part of Section 106, tribes must have a reasonable opportunity to identify concerns about affected properties and to advise Williams on the identification and evaluation of these properties. Williams’ public outreach and environmental permitting teams have primary responsibilities for tribal outreach efforts.Our Human Rights Policy and Statement outlines our commitment to respect human rights and avoid complicity in human rights abuses. The statement includes respecting the rights of Indigenous Peoples. 
In 2020, Williams had no incidents 
of violations involving the rights of Indigenous Peoples.Developing relationships of trust with Native American tribes has never been more important for our nation’s energy industry, particularly for those sectors in which Williams operates. We use an internal guide to provide best practices and recommended processes for successfully engaging this key stakeholder group.We complement the guide with land and permitting guidelines tailored to specific tribes. For example, we have established required guidelines for Williams employees working on lands managed by the Confederate Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation (CTUIR). The reservation is about 172,000 acres in Umatilla and 
Union counties, Oregon. Williams’ Northwest Pipeline system 
traverses approximately 10 miles 
of CTUIR land.We regularly identify opportunities 
to incorporate feedback from Native American tribes into our project planning. In 2020, we hosted 70 phone interactions with the tribes 
to support open communication and seek mutually beneficial outcomes. Our communications with Native American tribes decreased from 2019 because we have fewer 
new projects requiring significant tribal engagement. As part of our commitment to building positive relationships with Indigenous Peoples, we provide meaningful charitable contributions to tribal initiatives. For the second consecutive year, Williams sponsored the Native American Youth Summit and was the presenting sponsor of the Dance 
of the Two Moons event, benefiting the Indian Health Care Resource Center in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Each year, hundreds of youth and their families participate in the Youth Summit, designed to help strengthen Native American youth physically, mentally, socially and culturally. While the Youth Summit was held virtually in 2020 due to COVID-19 concerns, hundreds of students tuned in for a full day of sessions. Williams also sponsored the 
American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) 
annual conference in October 
2020. This virtual networking event was designed to increase the representation of Indigenous Peoples of North America in STEM studies and careers. Founded in 1977, AISES is a national nonprofit organization that promotes the highest standards of education 
and professional excellence to 
widen the STEM workforce. For more information on community giving at Williams, see page 91.Landowner RelationsWilliams collaborates with more 
than 100,000 landowners to operate our critical energy infrastructure systems that span 26 states. Williams would be unable to deliver the clean energy people rely on without these partnerships. As such, we work to maintain successful relationships with landowners who grant us the privilege of establishing permanent easements across private land.We strive to build landowner relationships based on mutual 
trust. In all cases, we treat landowners fairly by providing 
them reasonable financial compensation, protecting and restoring their land and respectfully operating on their property. Williams directly and regularly engages with our landowner partners through email, phone calls, open houses and in-person meetings. 
We abide by the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America’s Commitment to Landowners, a set 
of recommended behaviors that member companies agree to follow when engaging landowners.The commitments include building lasting relationships through mutual respect and trust, providing accurate and timely information, negotiating in good faith, responding to landowner concerns in a timely fashion and driving continuous improvement. 
We also adhere to applicable state regulations such as the Texas Landowner Bill of Rights.For existing partnerships, we conduct an annual checkup of our assets on landowner properties 
to confirm that our infrastructure continues to operate safely and unobtrusively. We have ongoing communications with landowners to expeditiously resolve concerns and complaints. In 2020, we leveraged virtual communication tools such 
as virtual open houses to engage landowners in project outreach 
when safely conducting in-person meetings was not possible due 
to COVID-19. For proposed pipeline projects, 
we apply a standardized approach to engage potentially affected landowners early in the process. 
Our focus on early engagement enables us to explain the project, obtain permission to survey the land and conduct a formal negotiation process. Williams recognizes that landowners can have concerns related to our projects, including apprehension related to safety, property value and construction impacts. We encourage landowners to ask questions, voice concerns and communicate their preferences so we can create mutually beneficial solutions. For more information about how we provide accessible energy, and how Williams actively addresses concerns related to our operations, see page 20 and page 98.Throughout the project planning process, Williams proactively circulates relevant project 
information to landowners, including company policies, frequently asked questions and steps for acquiring 
a right-of-way. For projects certified by the FERC, Williams is required to notify landowners up to half a mile from the proposed pipeline route. 
We distribute a brochure developed 
by the FERC that describes what 
to expect if a proposed project runs through a landowner’s property. 
In 2020, we distributed more than 1,400 mailers to landowners for 
the FERC pre-filing process. We work to minimize the impact 
on communities by locating the pipeline along existing rights-of-way, roadways or other utility corridors. We aim to reach mutual agreements with all new landowners. Our corporate philosophy is to introduce eminent domain only as a last resort. We try to reroute when possible to avoid property owners who do not want to work with us. For projects certified by the FERC, we use a federal eminent domain process. 
As part of this process, Williams maintains a formal landowner complaint resolution procedure to identify concerns and determine 
an appropriate resolution in a timely manner. Since 2018, we have had zero condemnations, and we continue to have a goal of zero condemnations. Through a new strategy and hard work in developing landowner relationships, Williams was able to pay more to landowners while having fewer condemnations.The establishment and fostering of landowner relationships 
are a keystone in the culture and values that we represent 
at Williams. Our teams focus on the safety and reliability of 
our systems while being responsible stewards of the land 
by supporting local landowners and their communities. 
As a reliable performer and partner in clean energy, our commitment is to remain authentic, honest, transparent 
and respectful within our communities where our families 
work and live. WENDY WHITFILL-EMBRY, MANAGER OF LAND AND REAL ESTATE AT WILLIAMSRight-of-way near Desoto Parish, Louisiana.93%of new landowners in our easement negotiations have reached a mutual agreement with us, which is 30% better than the industry average.Noise Management Managing the noise from our operations is an important element of respecting the communities where we operate. Elevated sound levels can negatively affect human health and the environment, which is why we take responsibility for controlling noise from our operations and comply with federal, state and local regulations.Effective sound control begins 
with the permitting and design 
of any noise-generating facility. 
We incorporate equipment and architectural acoustics to make 
sure we do not exceed the maximum decibel levels established by federal, state and local noise regulations. 
We use a variety of technologies 
to reduce sound levels, including exhaust silencers, low-speed fans and centrifugal compressor units. 
We complement technology measures with building and landscaping designs that use 
trees and noise walls for sound deflection and absorption. As our operations expand or the local landscape evolves, we adapt to make sure we remain in compliance with noise regulations. In doing so, we minimize impact to our neighbors and protect public health.Downtown Fort Worth wellsite, Fort Worth, Texas.Supply Chain Management 
& Responsible ProcurementGRI 102-10Williams worked with more than 4,245 suppliers across the United States in 2020 to procure the materials, goods and services needed to support our daily operations. We seek to develop relationships with suppliers that 
share our commitment to operational excellence and uphold our Core Values. In 2020, we successfully completed several key steps, such 
as publishing a Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Contractors and enhancing our supplier qualification process, which will serve as a foundation for further integrating sustainability into our procurement and supply chain management strategy moving forward. Our goal 
is to continue laying the groundwork for developing a more resilient, sustainable supplier base.Supply Chain Management GRI 102-9Our suppliers directly affect the financial success of our operations, influencing our ability to deliver value to our customers, investors and local communities alike. Williams uses a supplier relationship management process to segment suppliers into categories and direct Williams spend through a strategic supplier base defined by category strategies. Through this process, we can better assess the reliability and resilience of our suppliers and identify Tier 1 suppliers with the highest spending, strategic value and potential risks. On average, Tier 1 suppliers represent the top 80% of total annual spend. In 2020, we published a Code 
of Conduct for Suppliers and Contractors that drives our commitment to be a good corporate citizen and comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those regarding all who interact with us. The Code covers environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards including prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining, and environmental management. We require all suppliers to acknowledge and comply with the Code in order to do business with Williams. Williams’ goal is full implementation of supplier acknowledgement by the end of 2021. Williams holds suppliers to high standards on both product quality and services, and routinely evaluates our Tier 1 suppliers to confirm compliance with company policies, performance expectations and regulatory requirements. Suppliers not meeting our expectations may be subject to contractual remedies, up to and including termination. In 2020, Williams incorporated questions as part of the overall audit program to also include an assessment of supplier performance on social and environmental topics. Williams also completed five on-site audits of Tier 1 suppliers, despite COVID-19 impacts. In 2020, the Williams Supply 
Chain team enhanced the supplier qualification process by taking a deeper review of supplier practices and commitments on social and environmental topics. As part of this process enhancement, we require new suppliers or suppliers under re-evaluation to complete a self-assessment questionnaire that includes questions on diversity, human rights policies and code 
of conduct for business partners. This approach allows Williams to conduct business with suppliers 
that align with Williams’ ESG expectations, as Williams continues to work with suppliers to help them 
improve and align with our evolving ESG expectations. Human RightsWilliams strives to respect human rights through our supply chain by collaborating with suppliers that 
share our Core Values relating 
to freely chosen employment, 
working hours, respect in the workplace, wages and benefits, and health and safety. We see supplier relationships as an opportunity to share best practices and promote continual learning and improvement with respect to human rights.Our Human Rights Policy and Statement outlines our commitment 
to respect human rights and avoid complicity in human rights abuses. The statement includes our expectations related to workplace discrimination, diversity and inclusion, workplace conditions and freedom of association. Our commitment applies to everyone involved in Williams’ operations, including employees, officers, contractors, leased workers, suppliers, vendors and customers. 
In situations where Williams does 
not control operations, we will take reasonable steps to confirm that involved parties follow human rights best practices.We recognize our responsibility to protect internationally recognized human rights within our own operations and avoid contributing to human rights infringements within our supply chain. Since 1992, Williams has offered the Action Line, a 24/7 toll-free number that empowers employees and other stakeholders 
to report concerns including those related to human rights. Internal procedures are in place to confidentially handle all concerns submitted via the Williams Action Line. For more information on the Williams Action Line, see page 85.2020 Supplier SpendingSupplier Type Number of Suppliers Total Spending Tier 1 309 $1,216,149,919 Tier 2 and Tier 3 3,936 $295,232,333 Responsible ProcurementWhen surveying the market for potential suppliers, we only procure goods and services from qualified organizations that meet our safety, compliance and credit requirements. Williams is increasingly evaluating companies on ESG factors because we recognize the advantage of working with suppliers aligned 
with our sustainability priorities.In 2020, we updated our procurement purchasing processes and sourcing strategies to allow 
for better oversight on spending 
with environmentally and socially conscious suppliers. For example, we started piloting the inclusion of ESG-based prerequisites as part 
of our supplier qualification assessment. We will continue to identify opportunities to standardize and embed ESG criteria into our procurement process. Our goal 
is to acquire services and goods based on transparent, objective 
and cost-effective decision-making and risk management.We make efforts to hire local suppliers to promote economic development in our areas of operation. Our ability to hire locally depends on the availability of appropriately qualified individuals. For additional information on local economic development, see 
page 32. Additionally, we support suppliers from historically underrepresented groups including women and minorities. We are working to better understand the diversity of our existing supplier base by incorporating pertinent questions 
as part of our supplier onboarding process and annual recertification. 
In 2021, we will finalize implementation of an enterprise-wide resource planning system that will enhance our ability to execute through strategically identifying key areas to diversify our supply chain and collaborate with diverse suppliers.As an example of diverse procurement, during the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the Williams Supply Chain team had to quickly pivot to procure supplies that 
would protect Williams employees and the continuity of operations. 
We used a crowd-sourcing mechanism by which employees submitted ideas for non-traditional suppliers. Through that process, 
a minority/woman owned business was identified that would not have been a traditional channel for Williams. With our responsible procurement commitment top of mind, Williams procured 25,000 masks from this small business owner, who has since publicly recognized Williams’ commitment and impactful support.Senior Operations Technician Pete S. near Grapevine Mills Mall well site in Fort Worth, Texas.Williams vendor for masks, Shon Simon and team, in Los Angeles, California.2020 was intense and full of uncertainty, but the grace, 
sensitivity and kindness that the Williams staff showed us during 
a global pandemic was unmatched. The amazing thing about 
our experience with the Williams staff is the electrifying sense 
of community and culture, and as a business owner, I constantly use Williams as the benchmark for business culture. Williams [is] an example of excellence and it was an honor to serve you. SHON SIMON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AT SHON SIMON COMPANY