Essential The global pandemic we faced 
in 2020–2021 exposed the true character of many unsung heroes. I’m extremely grateful to the essential workers who kept the Williams network of clean energy infrastructure running smoothly to reliably deliver the natural gas needed to generate electricity, warm homes and businesses, and make home-cooked meals. I’m thankful for our company’s Information Technology teams that adeptly shifted thousands of our employees to remote working to ensure business continuity while protecting our vital systems from the constant barrage of cybersecurity threats. I commend our Emergency Operations Center that pivoted to develop and execute response 
plans in accordance with company requirements and CDC guidelines 
to ensure that our employees could get their essential work done in a 
safe and healthy manner.Besides protecting the health 
of our employees, we remained committed to the communities 
where our employees live and work. Early in the pandemic, Williams pledged an extra $1 million to support nonprofits struggling to 
meet the basic needs of families, schools pivoting to remote learning and first responders serving on 
the front lines. In total, Williams contributed $10.8 million in 2020 to more than 2,200 organizations and, while in-person opportunities were limited, our employees volunteered more than 18,000 hours.In addition to the pandemic, we witnessed local and global protests related to racial injustice and, in our headquarters city in 2021, we recently commemorated the 100th anniversary of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre. These events are somber reminders that we must continue as a company to reinforce a culture based on our Core Values, rooted in authenticity.Diversity is important at Williams because we intend to be the very best. To do this, we must attract, 
retain and gain the extra passion 
and energy from the very best talent. In 2020, I pledged my support for 
the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Coalition, which outlines 
a specific set of actions to cultivate 
a trusting environment where all ideas are welcomed and employees feel comfortable and empowered 
to have discussions about diversity and inclusion.Our Diversity & Inclusion Council is driving progress toward diversifying our workforce and leadership 
team. The Council is charged with identifying opportunities to ensure 
we are attracting those who are underrepresented in our workforce and ensuring that our leadership development programs shine a light on and develop hidden leadership traits that have long been overlooked.Looking ahead, we also want 
to ready the next generation of employees for careers in science, technology, engineering and math. 
In 2020, Williams provided more than $900,000 to support efforts to bring STEM education to those who might not be exposed to high-quality STEM learning opportunities, which lead to careers in well-paying STEM fields. For over 15 years, we have funded programs at technical schools and universities to ensure we are building a diverse talent pipeline to meet our company’s workforce needs as we drive toward a clean energy future.LeadershipWe’ve been on a progressive journey over the past several years as it relates to environmental, social and governance performance. Initially, our ESG efforts centered on documenting and communicating what we were already doing to be sustainable. In August 2020, I’m proud to say we became the first North American midstream company to announce a comprehensive climate commitment (see page 24) that includes real goals with clear expectations for our organization. At the same time, we realized there was both the need and the opportunity 
to set our sights even higher and to help lead the midstream industry.Last year, we provided leadership and guidance on ESG performance metrics, leading an effort with the Energy Infrastructure Council to produce a midstream industry-wide reporting template for ESG measures. This allows midstream companies 
to present the sustainability metrics that matter most to shareholders in a transparent and comparable way. We look forward to widespread adoption of these metrics by both the midstream industry and investment community. We’re also taking a leading stance on critical topics within our industry. As a member of the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America board, we helped outline the organization’s initial climate commitment. We also led the formation of an industry group called Natural Allies to promote the benefits of clean 
and affordable natural gas.Right here, right nowPost pandemic, world leaders will turn their attention to rebuilding economies and showing progress 
on emissions reduction. Natural gas offers a practical and affordable solution that is available right here, right now, for reducing emissions both domestically and internationally. We have a huge opportunity to leverage our natural gas-focused business as the world moves to a low-carbon future, while also helping our customers and stakeholders meet their climate goals.Natural gas has been—and continues to be—the most significant contributor to reducing carbon emissions in 
the U.S., driven in large part by 
a conversion from coal to natural 
gas power generation. But there 
is still more that we can do. The 
U.S. continues to burn coal, fuel oil, kerosene and diesel in applications that are ripe for displacement today with cleaner natural gas. Beyond 
the immediate benefits of reducing emissions, natural gas-powered generation of electricity brings reliability to the U.S. electric power grid and allows for growth in renewable forms of energy. And 
our footprint allows for low-cost expansions with the lowest environmental impact that can provide the supply to meet these near-term emissions reduction opportunities.At the same time, natural gas and natural gas infrastructure have set the stage for enabling the next generation of clean energy solutions. No energy infrastructure system integrates a reliable delivery network with a massive storage solution 
on the scale that natural gas infrastructure does. Williams’ nationwide footprint is adaptable 
to future renewable energy sources like clean hydrogen and RNG blending, thereby providing the necessary and critical infrastructure needed to meet clean energy demand for generations to come.This ability to efficiently manage 
the delivery of clean energy supply through the peaks and valleys of energy demand is exactly what we need for renewable and emerging technologies to be successful 
and to reach full potential. And 
we believe our infrastructure 
is a critical part of both the 
near- and long-term solutions.For more than a century, 
Williams has built a reputation 
as a responsible and dependable business that delivers on its promises. As we look ahead, we 
are leading with our vision for a clean energy future that is rooted in our 
natural gas-focused strategy and commitment to sustainable operations.ALAN S. ARMSTRONG, 
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERAbout WilliamsGRI 102-1; 102-2; 102-3; 102-4; 102-5; 102-6; 102-7; 102-8The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams) is a publicly traded Fortune 500 company with nearly 5,000 employees around the 
country. Based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, our operations span 26 U.S. states, including in the Gulf of Mexico, Rockies, Pacific Northwest and Eastern Seaboard regions. We own and operate more than 30,000 miles of pipelines across our system 
and handle approximately 30% of 
the natural gas in the United States.In addition, we own an interest 
in and operate 34 natural gas processing facilities, nine natural 
gas liquid (NGL) fractionation facilities and approximately 23 million 
barrels of NGL storage capacity. Through our large-scale infrastructure, Williams connects the best supplies with the world’s growing demand 
for clean energy. Our transmission, gas gathering and liquids pipelines serve a variety of customers such 
as utilities, power generators and liquefied natural gas facilities.At Williams, we understand the direct link between sustainable business operations, corporate stewardship and long-term financial success. Williams is committed to being the leader in providing infrastructure that safely delivers products to reliably fuel the clean energy economy. 
The products we transport are used every day for clean power generation, heating and industrial use. By developing energy infrastructure responsibly, we position our company to create long-term value. Despite 
a challenging year for the industry, 
in 2020 Williams achieved record gathering volumes and earnings. 
See our 2020 10-K Annual Report 
for our financial data.As a predominantly natural 
gas-focused energy infrastructure company, Williams plays a critical role as the world moves to a 
low-carbon future. We provide essential infrastructure to safely deliver energy that helps improve quality of life in important ways. 
We focus on improving our operational efficiencies and helping advance the next generation of 
clean energy solutions. Natural 
gas is instrumental in fueling the clean energy economy, particularly 
when it comes to displacing and providing alternatives to more carbon-intensive fossil fuels. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, increased natural gas production, coupled with 
a growing renewable energy market, have helped the United States continue to reduce overall carbon emissions growth. Natural gas is indispensable to supporting society’s ability to add more renewable energy to the power grid while ensuring power reliability when intermittent wind and solar resources are not available.Our operations rely on the hard work and integrity of our nearly 5,000 employees around the country. Nearly 60% of our employees—the dedicated individuals who manage our control rooms and operate, maintain and support our field assets 24 hours a day—are unable to work from home. Their essential efforts during the COVID-19 pandemic facilitated the safe delivery of gas 
to power America’s communities.As one of the nation’s largest clean energy infrastructure providers, we have a tremendous opportunity to leverage our natural gas-focused business as the world moves to a low-carbon future, while helping customers and the United States meet climate goals. We believe clean, affordable and reliable natural gas is an important component of today’s fuel mix and should 
be prioritized as one of the most important tools to aggressively displace more carbon-intensive fuels around the world. ALAN S. ARMSTRONG, WILLIAMS PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERPrecinct junction in Fort Worth, Texas.2020 Williams by the NumbersMetric Permanent Employees Total Number of Full-Time Employees by Gender Female 958 Male 3,747 Total Number of Permanent Employees by Region* Atlantic-Gulf 1,206 Northeast 1,445 West 909 Tulsa Headquarters 1,169 Total Number of Permanent Employees by Employment Type Full-Time  4,707 Part-Time 22 *	Region data presented is based on primary work location. Williams does not have temporary employees. This table excludes third-party workers. The difference 
of counts in full-time employees and full-time employees broken down by gender is due to employees that have elected to not specify or disclose gender.Williams’ OperationsAt Williams, we understand the direct link between sustainable business operations, corporate stewardship and long-term financial success. By developing natural gas infrastructure responsibly, we can position our company to create long-term value.Stakeholder EngagementGRI 102-40; 102-42; 102-43Listening to stakeholder feedback is critical to building and maintaining collaborative relationships. In 2020, Williams engaged a diverse group of stakeholders, including employees, landowners, customers, industry associations, local communities, Native American tribes, investors 
and suppliers to understand different perspectives regarding the industry, our business, operations and projects. Our objective is to maintain 
and strengthen relationships 
by understanding local needs, listening to stakeholder priorities 
and identifying opportunities 
to collaborate.We prioritize engagements 
with stakeholder groups that our operations directly affect. Williams regularly interacts with stakeholders using a variety of mechanisms, including in-person and virtual meetings, social media, open 
houses and community events. 
We work to identify the best engagement approach for each unique stakeholder group. As part of our materiality assessment and report preparation process, 
we identify our primary stakeholder groups and directly engage with external stakeholders to understand their primary topics of interest. Stakeholder Group Engagements in 2020 Environmental, Social and  Board of Directors »	Annual strategy process»	Regular management reports 
to board of directors »	Quarterly board and 
committee meetings  Corporate Governance; Climate Change; Cybersecurity; Diversity and Inclusion; Public Perception; Pipeline Safety; Process Safety Employees »	Daily online forums (Microsoft 
Teams Channels, Intranet)»	Training programs»	Town hall meetings with leadership»	Annual performance reviews Diversity and Inclusion; 
Employee Attraction, 
Retention and Development; 
Workforce Health and Safety Investors »	Weekly investor calls and meetings»	Annual Meeting of Stockholders»	Biennial perception study»	Biannual institutional investor update»	14 virtual investor conferences»	17 ESG-focused investor 
conference calls»	Ongoing media campaigns Biodiversity and Land Use; Climate Change; Corporate Governance; Diversity and Inclusion; Operational 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Stakeholder Group Engagements in 2020 Environmental, Social and  Customers »	Annual digital brand survey»	Ongoing media campaigns»	Annual satisfaction survey»	Regular one-on-one meetings»	Conferences and industry events Climate Change; Diversity and Inclusion; Energy Affordability 
and Access; Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Workforce Health and Safety Community, Landowners, 
Indigenous Populations, 
Nongovernmental Organizations »	Ongoing public awareness programs»	Three virtual open houses and 
18 virtual meetings with stakeholders»	Monthly newsletters»	Weekly social media»	Ongoing media campaigns»	434,851 mailers to landowners»	24-Hour control centers»	70 phone interactions with tribes Climate Change; Community Engagement; Diversity and Inclusion; Economic Development; Noise; Pipeline Safety; Public Perception; Workforce Safety; Pipeline Routing Regulators »	Regular corporate communications»	~200 meetings with regulators »	21,600 public awareness mailers 
to emergency response agencies»	Monthly newsletters»	Ongoing communications through our government affairs and outreach team Biodiversity and Land Use; Community Engagement;
Energy Affordability and 
Access; Pipeline Safety; Workforce Health and Safety Suppliers »	Five supplier audits»	Two supplier self-assessments»	Regular supplier training programs »	Onboarding and capturing diversity data through BlueSkies supplier portal»	Ongoing supplier 
qualification process  Cybersecurity; Diversity 
and Inclusion; Supply Chain Management; Workforce 
Health and Safety Industry Associations »	Board and/or committee leadership roles at 24 industry associations»	Regular workshops and meetings Climate Change; Cybersecurity; Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Pipeline Safety; 
Public Policy; Public Perception United Nations Sustainable Development GoalsGRI 102-12The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a call to action for government and non-state actors 
to promote a better and more sustainable future for all. The SDGs provide a blueprint to address global challenges, including poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, peace and justice.In 2020, we conducted a benchmark assessment against the 17 SDGs, down to the target level, to assess the highest priority goals for Williams. As part of the assessment, we evaluated the SDGs based on key criteria including connection 
to Williams’ material issues, alignment with the company’s business strategy and our ability to make progress toward the relevant targets. Below, we describe our corresponding contributions to high-relevance indicators for selected priority SDGs.Priority SDGsAffordable and Clean EnergyTarget: 7.1 By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services.Contribution to Relevant Indicators: As one of the largest energy infrastructure companies in the United States, Williams plays a critical role in providing access to clean, reliable and affordable energy.The United States power sector has lowered its CO2 emissions by 967 million metric tons since 2005 as natural gas’ market share of power generation has grown to 39%, making it the largest source of electric power generation. Natural gas is also a reliable fuel source making it the ideal partner for intermittent renewable energy sources like wind and solar power.Decent Work and Economic GrowthTarget: 8.8 Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers.Contribution to Relevant Indicators: Cultivating a safe and healthy work environment aligns with Williams’ Core Values, increases productivity and promotes long-term value creation.The people who work in our operations are safety-driven. We work toward zero safety incidents and are committed to the safety of our people. We continue to strive for continued improvements in our safety performance and have set a goal of 10% reduction from the previous three-year average in employee recordable injuries for 2021.In addition to specific reduction goals, we proactively work to advance safety culture through annual required safety training for all field employees, application of key process safety concepts across 
our assets regardless of regulatory requirement, and prompt sharing of safety incidents for broad awareness and learning of the organization. Further, we have developed targeted safety leadership development content for our operations leaders, detailed safety culture assessments to understand any gaps and improvement opportunities, and adherence to our Life Critical Operating Requirements that govern safety procedures for critical field operational tasks.Industry Innovation and InfrastructureTarget: 9.1 Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional and transborder infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all.Contribution to Relevant Indicators: Williams owns and operates more than 30,000 miles of pipelines. Our reliable gathering, processing and transmission pipeline infrastructure services deliver products that help increase quality of life by providing people with clean energy to heat buildings 
and water, access lighting, cook food and dry clothes. The adaptability of our infrastructure prepares us for the innovations of tomorrow, including next-generation fuels like hydrogen.Our energy infrastructure provides an immediate, practical, affordable and reliable solution for reducing emissions from oil and coal-fired electricity generation and is key to scaling renewable energy to the power grid in large volumes. We contribute to energy justice, or equitable distribution 
of affordable energy, by connecting cleaner resources to residential, commercial and industrial customers that rely on reasonably priced, reliable heat and fuel.Industry Responsible Consumption and ProductionTarget: 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle.Contribution to Relevant Indicators: Williams strives to lead the way on transparent reporting in 
the midstream sector. In addition to publishing our annual sustainability report, we co-directed an initiative with the Energy Infrastructure Council to launch the first-ever midstream company ESG reporting template. The template will encourage all midstream energy infrastructure companies 
to coalesce and present the sustainability metrics that matter most to investors in a transparent 
and comparable way. We look forward to widespread adoption by both the midstream industry 
and investment community.Williams has been a member of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Natural Gas STAR program since the program’s inception in 1993. Natural Gas STAR is a voluntary partnership that encourages oil and natural gas companies to adopt cost-effective technologies and practices that improve operational efficiency and reduce methane emissions. From 1993–2020, Williams avoided almost 5 million metric tons of CO2e by implementing industry best practices and partnering with 
the Natural Gas STAR program, the equivalent of taking over 1 million cars off the road. Williams is also a member of Our Nation’s Energy Future Coalition, Inc., a group of companies voluntarily working to reduce methane emissions.Corporate GovernanceGRI 102-18; 102-23For over 100 years, we have earned our reputation as a dependable and trustworthy business partner that delivers on our promises. Williams 
is committed to strong corporate governance, which we believe is critical to achieving our performance goals and to maintaining the trust 
and confidence of our stakeholders.Williams’ executive management 
and board of directors are committed to maintaining ethical corporate behavior throughout the organization. Policies and risk management procedures help us provide meaningful information to our stakeholders, define clear roles and expectations for conduct and run our business with integrity and openness.Our Corporate Governance Guidelines serve as a governance framework 
that addresses the practices of the board of directors and its committees. The governance and sustainability committee reviews these guidelines 
at least annually and recommends changes to the entire board as necessary. Williams’ chief executive officer is ultimately responsible 
for the overall management and functioning of the company.The compensation and management development committee oversees the establishment and administration of Williams’ compensation programs, including incentive compensation and equity-based plans. 
We design our compensation programs to align with company priorities and engage the entire organization in meeting common goals. Our Annual Incentive 
Program (AIP) applies to all employees, including our 
executive officers, and includes environmental and safety targets. ESG metrics comprise 10% of 
the AIP targets for all employees, including our executive officers. 
In 2020, Williams added a goal 
to reduce carbon equivalent emissions through a reduction 
in loss of primary containment events. This enterprise-wide goal clearly communicates our focus 
on reducing environmental, safety, and operations risk. In 2020, approximately 77% of 
the votes cast in the stockholder advisory vote on executive compensation (“say-on-pay”) 
were in favor of the company’s executive compensation program. Citing the linkage between pay 
and company performance, the proxy advisory firm Glass Lewis recommended against our company in 2020, which caused a significant drop in support. This adverse recommendation resulted in a decrease in support compared 
to previous years in which we typically received more than 
90% of the votes cast in favor.Additional information on 
Corporate Governance, such 
as director compensation, is 
in our 2020 Proxy Statement.Williams Tower in Tulsa, Oklahoma.2020 Board of DirectorsStephen ChazenAlan ArmstrongSteve BergstromNancy BueseCharles CogutMichael CreelVicky FullerPeter RagaussScott SheffieldRose RobesonMurray SmithWilliam SpenceBoard of DirectorsGRI 103-1; 103-2; 405-1Our board of directors is responsible for establishing broad corporate policies and overseeing overall company performance. Management keeps directors informed about the business through regular reports plus board meetings, committee meetings and discussions with the chief executive officer and other senior officers. In 2020, the board met seven times.In 2020, the Williams board 
of directors consisted of 12 accomplished and capable directors. In 2021, we added 
an additional female director, 
Stacey Dore, bringing our total 
to 13 directors. All the directors 
are independent with the exception of our president and chief executive officer. At this time, the board’s current preferred governance structure is to have an independent director serve as board chair, separate from the role of chief executive officer. The board of directors is required to stand for election at our annual meeting 
of stockholders.The Williams board has four standing committees: audit; compensation and management development; governance and sustainability; and environmental, health and safety. Each of our board committees is entirely composed of independent directors and, during 2020, no fewer than five independent directors served on each committee. The committees provide updates at each regular board meeting to keep the entire board of directors abreast of pertinent information. For detailed information on each board committee, please see the board committees and charters page of our website.We have a board policy limiting the number of public company boards on which a Williams director can serve. We inform directors of the policy and our corporate secretary group annually reviews each director’s board service. We also prohibit our directors, officers and other employees from engaging in short sales or hedging transactions in Williams’ securities.In addition to our board structure, 
our board has adopted other practices to facilitate strong corporate governance. For instance, the board and each of its committees conduct annual evaluations and self-assessments. Non-employee directors meet without management present at each regularly scheduled board meeting. We also have a majority vote standard for the election of directors in uncontested elections.Board Selection ProcessGRI 102-24; 103-3We value a diverse board of directors that provides a range of viewpoints, experience and perspectives. Through our rigorous board selection process, we seek highly qualified, non-employee candidates with, among other qualities, demonstrated leadership abilities, a reputation 
for honesty and integrity and a commitment to represent shareholder interests. The governance and sustainability committee is responsible for recommending to the board, new directors who reflect an appropriate balance of experience, skills and integrity characteristics. Expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are considered.In 2020, the board actively sought and considered minority candidates as part of its search for two new director positions. Subsequently, the board formally adopted a “Rooney Rule” requiring the board to consider candidates with a diversity of race, ethnicity and gender characteristics for independent director nominees.At each of its regularly scheduled meetings, the governance and sustainability committee evaluates the board’s composition to assess 
if the board has the right mix of 
skills and experience. As part of its director selection and nominating process, the committee annually assesses the board’s diversity in such areas as geography, race, gender, ethnicity and age. We strive to maintain a board of directors with diverse occupational and personal backgrounds. The mandated retirement date for a director is the first annual meeting of stockholders following the director’s 75th birthday, unless otherwise voted on and waived.2020 Board Demographics75%male board members25%female board members8%board members between 30–50 years old 92%board members over 50 years old8%board members ethnically diverse92%board members not ethnically diverseSenior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Debbie C. in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Sustainability OversightGRI 102-20; 102-32Sustainability topics may be in 
the purview of each of our board committees as well as the full 
board of directors.»	The governance and 
sustainability committee has primary responsibility for providing oversight and guidance on ESG matters. This committee also receives progress updates on the development of our sustainability report during regularly scheduled committee meetings. »	The environmental, health and safety committee is responsible 
for reviewing, monitoring and reporting to the full board on 
the company’s environmental, health and safety performance, including setting and reviewing 
key metrics and compliance 
with applicable regulations. »	The full board of directors reviews Williams’ annual sustainability report prior to publication. Sustainability topics of particular interest to the board of directors 
in 2020 included employee safety, relating to both operations and COVID-19, environmental matters 
and diversity and inclusion. The board oversaw a variety of critical initiatives in 2020, including adopting COVID-19 related safety protocols; implementing cybersecurity and cyber-insurance coverage; and solidifying the Diversity and Inclusion Council.While ultimate oversight responsibility of ESG topics resides with the board of directors, Williams’ management ensures ESG topics receive the proper attention. During our annual strategy session in 2020, we formally incorporated ESG into Williams’ long-term strategy. Williams has processes in place to make sure that accountability for ESG performance cascades across the organization.Williams’ management level ESG director is responsible for developing and executing our ESG integration strategy and engaging with Williams’ shareholders to understand ESG expectations and communicate our performance. Additionally, our ESG steering committee is a designated leadership team tasked with supporting the development and implementation of Williams’ sustainability initiatives across the business.The Williams Integrated Management System and corporate policies drive integrated ESG practices into our everyday operations with the goal of making Williams a more sustainable company. The Williams Integrated Management System applies to all Williams employees, contractors, operating assets, projects and offices. We reference how we use our Integrated Management System to manage Williams’ key ESG topics throughout this report.Shareholder RelationsShareholders depend on our safe, reliable operations that deliver long-term, stable returns. We have proven experience working with regulators, policymakers and stakeholders to minimize risk 
in order to build the critical infrastructure needed to fuel 
our clean energy economy. Our dialogue with shareholders, which includes board-level engagement with institutional investors, allows us to address issues, share relevant information and enhance alignment with shareholder expectations. In 
2020, members of our executive management team attended three in-person investor conferences, 
14 virtual investor conferences, 
30 conference calls, four virtual question and answer sessions, and four virtual non-deal roadshows.During such meetings, management may discuss Williams’ strategy, operations, ESG efforts, financial performance as well as broader energy industry topics and trends. The investor relations team 
at Williams also shares these same key messages with the financial community throughout the year via phone calls, video calls and email correspondence. In 2020, the investor relations team facilitated 
17 ESG-focused investor conference calls, 15 of which included a member of the executive management team.For more information on how we deliver online communications 
to shareholders, see the Williams investor relations webpage.In January 2021, Williams hosted 
a virtual public ESG event, the 
first event of its kind across the midstream sector, where the executive management team presented the company’s ESG performance, climate commitment and forward-looking strategy for sustainable operations. For more information from the event see the Williams virtual ESG event page.Williams has also taken steps 
to safeguard the company and 
our shareholders amid severe disruption in the energy market. 
We adopted the Shareholders 
Rights Plan in March 2020 to protect the interests of our shareholders 
by reducing the likelihood that 
any person or group could take advantage of volatile markets and gain control of the company through open market accumulation or other tactics without paying a fair value 
for the company. The Shareholders Rights Plan was terminated following judicial proceedings.Enterprise 
Risk OversightThe board of directors is responsible for oversight and guidance on organizational planning, strategy 
and risk management. As part of 
this effort, the board participates 
in an annual strategy session 
to evaluate Williams’ long-term strategy, including top risks that could affect the execution of 
the company strategy. Williams’ strategy team leads the annual strategic risk assessment process, which identifies top risks, with input from senior leaders.For each top risk, we define 
a tolerance and assign a risk alignment rating. The risks may directly or indirectly correspond 
with sustainability topics for the company. We present results from the strategic risk assessment to 
the board of directors during the annual strategy session.Over the last few years, shareholders have rapidly evolved to incorporate ESG as a complement to their investment process. Williams has also moved quickly to streamline the transparency of our disclosures and to operationalize ESG into key functions. In so doing, investors now have clear visibility to sustainability milestones for which they can hold us accountable; this is 
key to continuing the strength of our relationship with existing shareholders and attracting new ones because we’ve shown 
the willingness and ability to be an industry leader. DANILO JUVANE, VICE PRESIDENT OF INVESTOR RELATIONS AT WILLIAMS