Environmental Specialist Tara Meek and Engineer Nathan Weimer in West Virginia. WE MAKE CLEAN ENERGY HAPPENSM Environment As Williams develops and operates the large-scale infrastructure to help fuel the clean energy economy, we incorporate environmental considerations into our decision-making process. We want to preserve the environment for future generations while improving standards of living today. Williams takes care to reduce emissions, safeguard biodiversity and manage natural resources responsibly. Climate Change SASB EM-MD-110a.1; EM-MD-110a.2 and GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 305-1; 305-2 Society faces an unprecedented challenge: meeting the world’s growing energy demand while simultaneously addressing the risks of climate change. Williams recognizes the risks of climate change and our strategy provides a practical and immediate path to reduce industry emissions, support the viability of renewable energy sources and grow a clean energy economy. As an energy infrastructure company, our primary objective is to be a leader in safely delivering the products people rely on for electricity generation, heating and cooking while contributing to the clean energy economy. We believe natural gas is an integral part of the low-carbon future, particularly when it comes to displacing higher-emission fuels such as coal and heating oil. Natural gas generates up to 60% fewer greenhouse gas emissions than coal. It is also a reliable fuel source, making it the ideal partner for intermittent renewable energy sources like wind and solar power. In fact, during extreme weather events, natural gas has remained a reliable and uninterrupted source of energy during times when it is needed most. 2005 & 2017 U.S. CO2 Emissions from Electric Power Sector (Million Metric Tons CO )2 3,000 2,700 2,400 2,100 1,800 1,500 1,200 900 600 300 0 Petroleum Natural Gas Coal 101 319 Source: Energy Information Administration. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, between 2005 and 2017, CO2 emissions from the electricity sector declined by 28%1. More than 60% of this total was attributed to natural gas replacing coal- and oil-based electricity generation2. This significant achievement represents the growing momentum and opportunity for natural gas to play an even larger role to reduce emissions in the United States without unfunded subsidies or negative economic impact. As we seek to meet growing demand for American-made energy, we remain committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from our operations, while also helping our customers achieve their emissions reductions goals. In 2017, the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) published a series of recommended climate disclosures that provide decision-useful information for investors, lenders and insurance underwriters. TCFD structured the recommendations in four areas: governance, strategy, risk management and metrics and targets. To increase transparency and respond to growing interest in our climate-related practices and performance, we are working to align our climate change reporting with the recommendations established by TCFD. For additional information on how Williams manages the risks and opportunities of climate change, see our response to the CDP climate change questionnaire. 1U.S. Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, U.S. Energy Information Administration (2017) 2The Role of Natural Gas in the Transition to a Lower-Carbon Economy, Interstate Natural Gas Association of America (2019) Our strategy to address the risks and opportunities ofGovernance climate change includes: Our commitment to mitigating climate change risk extends to all levels of the organization, from operations managers to the board of directors. The board of directors oversees the effectiveness of the company’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) risk management approach and ensures senior leadership is focused on relevant ESG matters, including climate change. While climate-related topics can arise in the context of all board committees and the full board, the governance and sustainability committee has primary oversight over climate change matters. Members of Williams’ executive leadership regularly communicate on ESG topics to relevant committees and to the full board. Highlighting Williams’ commitment, the company appointed an environmental, social and governance director to develop and execute our strategy for increasing ESG integration, raising the visibility of our ESG capabilities, and engaging with shareholders to understand ESG expectations and communicate our performance. Because these responsibilities tie directly to our corporate strategy, the environmental, social and governance director reports to Williams’ vice president of corporate strategic development. Strategy Natural gas is critical to addressing and slowing climate change. It creates an immediate, practical and affordable solution for reducing emissions from oil and coal-fired electricity generation and is key to scaling renewable energy to the power grid in large volumes. • Connecting the best supplies to the best markets to maximize transportation efficiency, improve cost-effectiveness and significantly reduce emissions; • Operating our assets efficiently through preventive maintenance and equipment upgrades; • Using data analytics to identify and drive strategic emissions reduction initiatives; • Collaborating with peer companies through key industry initiatives and trade organization involvement to uncover and implement innovative best practices; • Exploring and implementing renewable energy opportunities, including renewable natural gas and solar energy; • Focusing on the use of existing rights of way to reduce deforestation; and • Funding and participating in research related to emissions detection, quantification and reduction technologies. We are actively responding to and working with government regulators and customers who are developing greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets. In all cases, switching to lower-emission and renewable electricity sources will be a critical element of meeting emissions reduction targets. Williams is working to deliver clean natural gas while increasing our capabilities to reduce our own emissions and identifying renewable sources of fuel to supply to our customers. WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Harnessing Solar Energy to Power Our Operations We are taking steps to develop solar energy installations at facilities to provide electricity to our existing natural gas transmission and processing operations, an investment made possible through generous federal and state tax credits. Williams has been identifying locations where solar power installations are both economical and can be primarily sited on company-owned land that is adjacent to existing facilities. Sites under consideration span Williams’ footprint, with initial sites identified in Alabama, Colorado, Georgia, Louisiana, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia. These facilities are expected to be placed into service beginning late 2021. In total, Williams’ facilities currently draw an average over 400 megawatts of electricity, purchased from our very reliable grid each day. We anticipate that agreements with local utilities will allow excess solar power not used by existing facilities to be sold back into the grid. For example, Williams delivers renewable natural gas by partnering with energy companies in Washington, Ohio and Texas to transport landfill-produced methane, a byproduct of the waste decomposition process that occurs in landfills. Landfill-produced methane is a renewable fuel because methane is captured as biogas rather than being released directly into the atmosphere. Williams employs advanced gas analysis equipment to ensure the renewable gas stream is pipeline quality and can be safely commingled with conventionally produced gas. Additionally, in 2019, Williams partnered with a dairy farm in Washington by building the necessary infrastructure to connect the biogas to our pipeline. The project is expected to go into service in 2020. As part of the project, we changed tariff specifications to allow for more renewable natural gas in our Northwest Pipeline system, while still ensuring safe transportation of the blended fuel. We anticipate the project will offset approximately 50,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions — the equivalent of taking more than 10,800 cars off the road each year. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA), as of July 2019, there were 62 landfill-to-gas operational projects in the United States, with 35 being planned or under construction. The U.S. EPA has identified an additional 475 landfills across the United States with the potential for renewable gas projects. Williams is at the forefront of this technological advancement, and is committed to pursuing additional opportunities in this space. Williams is a signatory of Interstate Natural Gas Association of America’s Methane Emissions Commitment to implement methane reduction activities and perform leak surveys at all transmission and storage compressor stations by 2022. We use infrared cameras to quickly identify and repair leaking equipment, which can represent a large source of emissions for our industry. We are in the process of implementing a formalized leak detection and repair program in 2020 to enhance how we mitigate unintended releases from transmission and storage equipment and measure associated success. From 1993–2019, Williams avoided more than 9 million tons of CO2e by implementing industry best practices and partnering with the Natural Gas STAR program, equivalent to taking nearly 2 million cars off the road each year. We have also been a member of the U.S. EPA Natural Gas STAR program since its inception in 1993. Natural Gas STAR is a voluntary partnership that encourages oil and natural gas companies to adopt cost-effective technologies and practices that improve operational efficiency and reduce methane emissions. We successfully implemented recompression measures to lower gas line pressure before pipeline maintenance to reduce methane emissions and make more natural gas available for sale. In cases where recompression technology was utilized in 2019, Williams successful reduced pipeline blowdown greenhouse gas emissions by 87%. In 2019, Williams joined the American Petroleum Institute Environmental Partnership, which provides a forum for participants to share information and analyze best practices and technological breakthroughs aimed at responsibly developing natural gas and oil resources. The Partnership represents a growing coalition of U.S. production, processing and transmission companies responsible for meeting the nation’s growing demand for low-cost energy. Participating companies are committed to improving environmental performance by accelerating methane emissions reductions from key emissions sources. Montauk Energy values our partnership with Williams at our Apex RNG facility in New Holland, Ohio. This facility cleans and processes landfill gas into RNG for injection into the Williams pipeline system. Williams’ support of this project enables the beneficial use of RNG, the equivalent of reducing CO2 emissions from 3.2 million gallons of gasoline consumed per year. SCOTT HILL, VICE PRESIDENT OF OPERATIONS AT MONTAUK ENERGY Risk Management Successfully managing our ESG performance is inextricably linked to our ability to mitigate risk and deliver long-term value to shareholders. We integrate climate-related considerations as a component of operational risk, which is integrated into key business planning and our annual risk assessment process. Williams recognizes the reputational and physical risks that climate change can have on our business, and we implement appropriate mitigation measures. We pay particular attention to reducing methane emissions, which make up an estimated 15% of our assets’ greenhouse gas emissions profile. While natural gas is critical to the clean energy economy, we recognize that stakeholder opposition to natural gas development may affect our ability to maintain and expand our operations. That’s why Williams plays an active role in educating and engaging communities, customers, nongovernmental organizations, industry associations and government officials to conduct research, understand different perspectives and explore collaborative solutions built on feedback. We host town hall and community meetings in person, when appropriate, to listen to different perspectives and discuss the benefits of our projects to communities and the economy. Since 2012, we have reduced our reported methane emissions from gas processing plants and transmission compressor stations more than 41%. Over the same period, the throughput capacity at these facilities increased 40%. We maintain extensive community outreach programs as well as provide informational websites and contact information, allowing stakeholders to ask questions or express concerns. We see this as critical to reducing risks to our business strategy that originate from misinformation and philosophical differences. For a full list of Williams’ risk factors, including those related to climate change, see our 2019 Filing 10-K Annual Report. Williams’ Harrison Hub facility in Scio, Ohio. WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Northeast Methane Emissions Reduction Initiative Williams implemented a methane emissions reduction initiative in 2019 to identify additional opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across our northeast gathering and processing operations. Williams invested an estimated $475,000 in the initiative, resulting in a 26% reduction in predicted methane emissions for the year 2020 compared to 2017 — the equivalent of taking more than 14,300 cars off the road each year. As part of the initiative, Williams worked to prioritize opportunities with the highest potential to reduce emissions in a strategic and targeted manner to manage costs and maximize outcomes. Using the U.S. EPA reported methane emissions for 2017, it was determined in the northeast that the best opportunities for methane reduction are equipment modification/replacement at existing facilities. This equipment includes, but is not limited to, pneumatic controller replacements, switching controllers to instrument air, replacement of gas-driven pneumatic pumps with electric pumps on dehydrator skids and installing more efficient burner units in dehydrator systems. Metrics & Targets Our Williams Integrated Management System includes requirements for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions and complying with federal and state reporting requirements. We prepare and submit an annual greenhouse gas emissions inventory to the U.S. EPA for our midstream gathering, processing and interstate transmission and storage operations. We also track and report Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Scope 1 & Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Million Metric Tons CO e)1 2 29.427.514 15 3025.8 12 25 10 20 Accurately tracking greenhouse gas emissions with measurable data enables us to identify opportunities to increase operational efficiency and reduce emissions. Our subject matter experts and engineering groups work directly with environmental specialists and operations personnel to use this data to develop and implement initiatives to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions at our compressor stations, processing plants and storage facilities. Examples include conducting leak detection and repair assessments, installing electric motors on compressors and installing emission combustion devices. In 2019, Williams joined Our Nation’s Energy Future Coalition, Inc. (ONE Future), a group of natural gas companies voluntarily working to reduce methane emissions by identifying policy and technical solutions that better manage emissions associated with the production, processing, transmission and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future members set a goal to reduce collective methane emissions in the natural gas supply chain to 1% by 2025. Williams has committed to the ONEBcf/Day10 Future 2025 methane intensity goals for industry sectors4 2 5 of 0.08% for gathering and boosting, 0.18% for processing and 0.31% for transmission and storage. As shown below,0 Williams is exceeding anticipated progress toward the ONE Scope 1 Scope 2 WMB Total Volumes (Bcf/Day) Future greenhouse gas reduction goal. 1For more information on greenhouse gas emissions data, methodology and exclusions, see performance data table on page 66. 2019 data has been assured by an independent external assurance provider. We use optical gas imaging infrared cameras at Williams stations to identify and repair fugitive emissions sources from compressor engines, as well as other types of vessels and piping. This is just one of the many practices Williams uses to mitigate emissions from our assets. CHAD JOHNSON, ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY SPECIALIST ONE Future Methane Emissions Target & Williams Methane Emissions Performance (Percent) Gathering & Boosting Processing Transmission & Storage TARGET 2025 0.080 0.180 0.310 0.035 0.017 0.032 Environmental Stewardship SASB EM-MD-160a.4 and GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 307-1 At Williams, we take care to preserve the environment for future generations while improving the standards of living today by delivering natural gas products that reliably fuel the clean energy economy. We incorporate environmental considerations into our decision-making process at all stages of our operations to reduce emissions, safeguard biodiversity and responsibly manage critical natural resources. We aim to serve as responsible stewards of the environment while recognizing that the assets we operate and the products we deliver can affect people and the environment. We have processes in place to mitigate environmental risk across our operations and we meet or exceed applicable laws and regulations. Williams is committed to facilitating full and open discussions to address stakeholder concerns and develop responsible standards where regulations do not exist. We work to achieve the greatest benefit for all interested parties. Our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy outlines our commitment to protect the environment and integrate environmental considerations into our core business activities. Every employee and contractor is responsible for adhering to this policy. Williams’ environmental, health and safety committee within the board of directors oversees our company-wide culture of environmental protection, as outlined in our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy. The Williams Integrated Management System is how we put our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy into action. The management system serves as our company-wide platform for providing requirements, guidelines, procedures, standards and specifications to manage and reduce operational risk and environmental risk. Our employees use the Williams Integrated Management System every day to conduct critical work, assure compliance with regulations and mitigate impacts to the environment. Updates to the system are driven by changing regulatory requirements and our steadfast commitment to continuous improvement. Our Environmental Assessment program helps identify corrective actions to enhance compliance. We utilize internal resources to communicate findings and share best practices between franchises. The teams consist of internal and third-party environmental and audit professionals working collaboratively across the company to identify potential issues and evaluate environmental performance trends. We track all findings from the Environmental Assessment program to communicate strengths and opportunities from different operating areas across the company. In 2019, we assessed 12 of Williams’ facilities through the Environmental Assessment program. Environmental Compliance Upholding compliance with local, state and federal regulations while protecting the environment is critical to maintaining operational excellence, protecting our license to operate and delivering value to our shareholders. We are committed to meeting or exceeding all applicable environmental laws and regulations. The Williams Integrated Management System provides specific guidelines and policies for employees to follow, including regulatory requirements and industry standards. As such, adherence to the management system serves as a company-wide control for managing compliance risk and reliability. In 2019, we updated our compliance tracking system to enhance how we manage business-critical work. As part of the process, we assign and track tasks to monitor completion of recurring environmental compliance responsibilities. Reminders associated with each task go out to relevant employees ahead of due dates to minimize risks of noncompliance. To reinforce the importance of maintaining company compliance, Williams continues to reward front-line employees for timely completion of required tasks through the quarterly bonus incentive. Since 2017, we have reduced environmental-related notices of noncompliance by 60%. As an additional layer to promote compliance, our Environmental Assessment program establishes an evaluation process to systematically assess Williams’ compliance with federal, state and local environmental regulations. By identifying opportunities for improvement, the program evaluates the effectiveness of our existing environmental programs and procedures. In 2019, Williams received 20 environmental-related notices of noncompliance. We continue to strive to reduce this number to zero. In 2018, we set a goal to reduce notices of noncompliance by 15%. We achieved that goal in 2019 with a 31% reduction and set a new goal to reduce notices of noncompliance by an additional 10% in 2020. Spill Performance Williams views sustainability as synonymous with strong business fundamentals. We operate in a manner that protects the environment while delivering on the growing demand for cleaner energy in North America. Williams’ track record shows that we are committed to preventing spills and releases from our operations, which can negatively affect the environment and the communities we serve. In 2019, we achieved a 39% reduction in reportable spills to soil and water from 2018 levels, exceeding our goal. Our spill prevention, control and countermeasure operating requirements within the Williams Integrated Management System include company-wide procedures for preventing spills and mitigating the impacts of potential spills. Specifically, the requirements help determine when spill plans are needed and how to develop, implement and maintain effective plans. The plans also address compliance with regulatory requirements for pollution prevention at our owned and operated assets. If a spill occurs, we have processes and assets in place for controlling the spill to reduce its impact, reporting to regulatory and community stakeholders as required, remediating resulting impacts, investigating root causes and subsequently improving program management and other controls to reduce the risk of future events. As part of our operations, we use tanks to store large quantities of hydrocarbon products such as natural gas liquids. Williams has an extensive tank inspection and testing program that adheres to industry standards to prevent spills from our tanks. The program provides guidelines for tank inspections conducted by Williams personnel, as well as third-party certified tank inspectors. Our preventive maintenance plan is also a critical component of Williams’ spill reduction efforts. In 2019, we implemented a safety and environmentally critical checklist to designate critical equipment and prioritize preventive maintenance activities accordingly. We took this voluntary step in response to incidents experienced by companies in the midstream sector. We work to implement best practices based on our own experiences, as well as the experiences of our industry peers. In 2019, Williams reported eight hydrocarbon spills to soil and water, equaling 68 barrels of hydrocarbons in total. We have data collection initiatives in place to investigate, mitigate and share lessons learned to reduce the likelihood of a spill. In 2018, we started measuring and reporting a near-miss-to-incident ratio. In 2019, we increased our analysis of spill and release event data to identify leading indicators of more severe event occurrences. As a result of this increased awareness, the number of spills with environmental impact has decreased. In January 2019, Williams experienced a rupture of a natural gas pipeline, resulting in the release of natural gas condensate into Parachute Creek, Colorado. Within 30 minutes, Williams acted to shut in the line. The rupture resulted in an estimated 13 barrels of spilled hydrocarbons, of which 12 barrels were recovered. The incident did not lead to groundwater contamination. Williams determined the event was the result of a lightning strike, knocking out power to the area, causing an over-pressure event to a section of pipe that experienced wall loss due to corrosion. We have identified lessons learned from this incident and applied mitigation measures to prevent future occurrences. For example, Williams enhanced the monitoring and treatment of the pipelines and facilities in the area. Several of these preventive maintenance items include lowering the maximum allowable pressure of pipelines and facilities, installing monitoring devices to detect bacteria that cause internal corrosion, injecting biocide treatments and developing a five-year plan to target high-priority pipelines for enhanced inspection. We set a loss of primary containment goal in 2020 to encourage further improvements in spill performance. This goal makes up 5% of our annual incentive program for employees, providing an increased focus on activities that help us meet enterprise safety and environmental commitments. While we target having zero spills, we also set a goal to achieve an additional 10% reduction in reportable spills in 2020. Noise Mitigation Williams strives to be a good neighbor in the communities where we operate by managing noise from our facilities. Elevated sound levels can negatively affect humans and the environment, which is why we take responsibility for controlling noise from our operations and confirming compliance with federal, state and local regulations. The impact of noise on the surrounding environment is a key consideration in our engineering process. From selecting sites that offer a natural buffer between our facilities and our neighbors to specifying equipment to minimize sound levels, we are committed to being a good neighbor. GLENN KOCH, VICE PRESIDENT OF PROJECT EXECUTION, TRANSMISSION AND GULF OF MEXICO Effective sound control begins with the permitting and design of any noise-generating facility. We incorporate equipment and architectural acoustics that meet or exceed applicable federal, state and local noise regulations to establish maximum decibel levels. We use a variety of technologies to reduce sound levels, including exhaust silencers, low-speed fans and centrifugal compressor units. We complement technology measures with building and landscaping designs that use trees and noise walls for sound deflection and absorption. As our operations expand or the local landscape evolves, we adapt to make sure we remain in compliance with noise regulations to remain good neighbors. Waste Management Properly managing nonhazardous and hazardous waste from Williams’ operations mitigates environmental impacts, promotes safe operations and protects human health. Williams focuses on proactively reducing waste from our operations and effectively managing the waste we do generate. The Williams Integrated Management System establishes a standardized process for managing hazardous and nonhazardous waste at company sites that includes waste characterization, storage, handling, packaging, transporting and disposal. This process, combined with training and compliance audits, forms the basis of our waste management approach. For example, waste management practices and performance are evaluated as a part of the Environmental Assessment program for further compliance assurance. Williams manages waste from our operational activities through prescriptive measures, including placing waste in designated, labeled containers; maintaining waste storage areas; conducting inspections; and disposing of waste based on all applicable regulations. Our environmental specialists assist operations with waste classification, disposal and reporting. Common types of waste from our facilities and pipeline systems include used oil, pipeline coating, scrap metal and contaminated soils. In our corporate offices, we pay special attention to recycling items such as paper, plastic and cardboard. In 2019, our Tulsa headquarters collected and recycled an estimated 23 tons of materials. We continue to seek practical opportunities to reduce waste from our offices and field operations. For example, we are conducting an internal assessment to identify facilities with the greatest potential to switch existing lighting technology to more efficient LED lightbulbs. To promote the use of our products in a safe and environmentally sound manner, we manage chemical inventory reporting through the Williams Integrated Management System operating requirement for Tier II reporting and hazard communication. Environmental specialists prepare and submit Tier II chemical inventory reports to the appropriate regulatory agencies annually. Williams’ Safety Data Sheets are publicly available to provide interested stakeholders with detailed information and meet local, state and federal requirements. For more information about Williams’ Safety Data Sheets, visit our website. Water Management While water consumption is not a normal day-to-day part of operations, we understand this is an important topic for several stakeholders, including local communities and nongovernmental organizations. We believe water is a precious resource, and we recognize the importance of effectively managing any amount of water use. Williams protects water resources during construction, operation and asset retirement through our environmental inspection and compliance programs. We adhere to all applicable environmental laws, regulations and permit conditions related to water. Williams also takes into account water resources when developing an asset or planning a new pipeline right of way. As part of our detailed routing and construction process, we thoughtfully review routing options to minimize impacts to the environment, including water resources. As part of the process, we seek to avoid constructing through forested wetlands and sensitive streams. Williams focuses on preserving water at the highest rate possible, which is why we return the majority of the water back into the original watershed. We are able to do this because of a relentless focus on preserving water quality by adhering to stringent water quality standards established through federal and state regulations and permitting requirements. That means all the water we use must meet acceptable standards before returning it to the ground or surface. The majority of our water use is for hydrostatic testing during the commissioning process. In 2019, we used approximately 15.76 million gallons of water for hydrostatic testing, most of which was returned to the same basin where it originated, or reused. Williams used less water in 2019 than in 2018 because we commissioned fewer pipeline expansion projects. Williams also supports broad-based research on water-related topics. Williams is collaborating with state agencies to advance the understanding of seismicity in Kansas and is a member of the Consortium to Study Trends in Seismicity (CSTS), a public-private project to study trends in seismicity in Kansas. The CSTS has installed seismic stations strategically around the state and preliminary data shows that formation fluid pressures and corresponding reduction of seismicity may be occurring as a result of reduced injection fluid volumes. Air Emissions SASB EM-MD-120a.1 and GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 305-7 At Williams, we understand the direct link between sustainable business operations and environmental stewardship. We pay close attention to air emissions that can impact local air quality and public health. Williams actively works to reduce air emissions by maximizing operational efficiency and ensuring compliance with federal and state requirements. In doing so, we can limit our environmental footprint, support the health of community members where we operate and maintain long-term business value. We recognize our responsibility to control air emissions — including volatile organic compounds, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter — from our operations to minimize environmental risks and impacts to human health. Our air quality management procedure within the Williams Integrated Management System establishes a standard approach for the construction, operation and maintenance of assets. The procedure outlines the required process for tracking and submitting air quality data to maintain compliance with applicable regulations and permits. We provide air quality permit training for employees who maintain our facilities and support capital projects. By tracking air releases from our operations, we are able to evaluate our performance and identify opportunities for improvement. 2019 Air Emissions Sulfur dioxide (SO) emitted2 425  Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted  32,196  Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted  9,208  Persistent organic pollutants emitted  0  Hazardous air pollutants emitted  2,655  Particulate matter emitted  1,156  As we develop and operate the large-scale infrastructure that makes clean energy happen, we strive to achieve emissions reductions through innovative design and sound operating practices. In 2019, we surpassed our target to reduce the number of reportable air releases to the atmosphere by 15% from 2018 levels by achieving a 52% reduction. To demonstrate our commitment to continuous improvement, we established a 2020 goal to reduce reportable air releases to the atmosphere by an additional 10% from 2019 levels. In 2019, we surpassed our target to reduce reportable air releases by 15% from 2018 levels by achieving a 52% reduction. We regularly assess opportunities to reduce emissions from our operations. For example, we conduct routine equipment maintenance to improve fuel efficiency and perform tests on combustion units to confirm equipment is operating properly. We also implemented the following technologies to further reduce air emissions: • Non-selective catalytic reduction, high-pressure fuel injection and pre-combustion chamber technology on legacy reciprocating engines and selective catalyst reductions on new combustion turbines to control nitrogen oxide emissions. • Oxidation catalysts on reciprocating engines and turbines to control carbon, volatile organic compound and formaldehyde emissions. • New compression designs, including turbine compressor startup and shutdown, site-wide emergency shutdown testing and a compressor vent gas reduction system. Additionally, the Transco Emissions Reduction program is a proposed plan to replace more than 150 units with state-of-the-art equipment and emissions control technology over a seven-year period, significantly reducing key air pollutants, particularly nitrogen oxides and methane. Biodiversity & Land Use SASB EM-MD-160a.2; EM-MD-160a.3 and GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 304-4 Protecting Biodiversity At Williams, we take pride in being a good steward of the environment as well as a trusted neighbor. Our goal is to operate in a manner that protects the health of local ecosystems so we can leave a better world for future generations. Williams’ biodiversity practices are governed by regulatory and company-driven policies. We use a systematic approach to incorporate biodiversity into the planning process of all proposed projects, including extensive research to identify sensitive habitats within a proposed project footprint. Our environmental assessments incorporate geographic information system (GIS) analyses, computer-based reviews and site surveys to pinpoint sensitive environmental and cultural areas. We pay special attention to streams and wetlands; rare, threatened or endangered species; and culturally important sites. Based on the results of our assessments, we implement site-specific management plans that avoid or minimize negative impacts. We develop plans in compliance with all applicable regulations, including those promulgated or enforced by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. To the extent practicable, we design projects that use existing rights of way and avoid areas with high biodiversity. We follow the hierarchy of avoid, minimize and mitigate as required by federal permitting agencies on infrastructure development projects. If sensitive areas cannot be avoided by rerouting during the design phase, Williams works closely with state and federal agencies to obtain the necessary permits and approvals to minimize impacts. In such instances, we collaborate with interest groups, biodiversity experts, community organizations and land management agencies to develop appropriate mitigation plans. Common mitigation measures include revising timing, minimizing construction footprints and implementing specialized construction methods. In 2019, 35% of land owned, leased and operated by Williams was within or near areas of protected conservation status or endangered species habitat. The table below shows the number of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red listed species within the counties where Williams operates. 2019 International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List Species in Williams’ Areas of Operation Critically Endangered  28  Endangered  47  Vulnerable  34  Near Threatened  16  Least Concern  30  Total  155  We identify tangible means of demonstrating our ongoing commitment to being good environmental stewards. For example, Williams committed nearly $12 million to establish a Voluntary Mitigation Fund to offset the impacts of our Atlantic Sunrise project on migratory bird and bat habitats, including the eastern small-footed bat. To date, the program has funded nine projects that collectively protect more than 6,600 acres of migratory bird and bat habitat across nine counties in Pennsylvania. We completed six of these projects in 2019 as part of our ongoing efforts to support threatened and endangered species in the region. Portions of Williams’ existing northeast and northwest U.S. pipeline systems are located in sloped, landslide-susceptible terrain. Williams is committed to reducing the risk of landslides, which can potentially affect pipeline integrity and disrupt the environment. Williams assesses landslide potential on proposed pipelines and implements mitigation measures during new pipeline construction to prevent landslides from occurring on new rights of way. We continually monitor and remediate susceptible sites using field and aerial patrols coupled with annual light detection and ranging surveys. As part of this effort, we employ best-in-class technologies such as unmanned aerial vehicles. Williams follows The Nature Conservancy guidelines to help reduce the risk of landslides, slips and erosion from tree-clearing and earthwork performed to install pipelines. Land Use Williams is committed to appropriately retiring and remediating land used for our facilities and pipeline projects. We strive to return land to its original state and create opportunities for beneficial reuse. In 2019, Williams’ environmental services team managed 110 active remediation sites. Williams’ asset retirement and removal obligation is a planning mechanism that allows us to identify the potential environmental impacts and associated costs of retiring an asset so we can proactively identify suitable solutions. As part of the process, we initiate a property assessment and subsurface investigation prior to any demolition or abandonment activity. The findings from the assessments help determine the most appropriate approach for restoring land no longer used as part of our operations. When remediating land, we work to re-establish native plant and animal species and preserve soil and water resources. Our remediation plans meet state and local regulatory standards, and often include practices that exceed regulatory compliance. For example, we voluntarily implement restoration seed mixes at all new northeast gathering locations to promote both plant and pollinator diversity to help combat global declines in pollinator species. In 2019, Williams disturbed 24,132 acres of terrestrial land. During construction of the North Seattle lateral upgrade project in Washington, an old cedar tree was felled to make room for a facility. When the cedar tree was cut, Williams discovered a hollow void with a large honeybee hive. The environmental inspector for the project contacted the Williams natural resource permitting specialist to check if there were any permit requirements for saving honeybees. While no specific honeybee permit requirements existed, Williams felt it was within our corporate responsibility to save the honeybee colony. Work began immediately to locate a local beekeeper that was available to relocate the colony. The beekeepers estimated that Williams helped save more than 200,000 bees through the relocation process. Saving the bees was above and beyond the construction permit requirements, demonstrating Williams’ passion for doing the right thing. WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Supporting Biodiversity in the Areas Where We Operate Ruffed Grouse in Pennsylvania In 2019, Williams participated in a cooperative effort between the Pennsylvania Game Commission, Ruffed Grouse Society and Energy Transfer Partners to improve wildlife habitat on state game lands in Bradford County, Pennsylvania. This effort is part of a multi-phase initiative to increase the amount of habitat acreage on state game lands. The habitat, known as “early successional habitat,” is being developed to meet the needs of wildlife requiring young forests to flourish. Species dependent on this habitat include the ruffed grouse, American woodcock and golden-winged warbler, along with deer, bear and turkey. Mule Deer in Wyoming Mule deer migrate hundreds of miles across western Wyoming each year and need to move freely over great distances. Residential and commercial development in the area has hindered mule deer migration. Williams is partnering with the Wyoming Game and Fish Department to convert 25 miles of hazardous fencing near Wyoming’s grizzly wildlife habitat management area to wildlife-friendly designs that will promote the health of migrating mule deer. The project started in spring 2019 and is being conducted over five years with five miles of fence conversion per year. Waterfowl in Texas The Richland Creek wildlife management area southeast of Dallas-Fort Worth is home to environmentally critical waterfowl habitat. In 2019, Williams partnered with Ducks Unlimited to fund the implementation of water control structures at the Richland Creek wildlife management area. The controls help create and manage water flow in the wetlands, resulting in roughly 150 acres of new wintering waterfowl habitat. This effort represents one of several voluntary projects funded by Williams to benefit critical species’ habitat and water quality near our areas of operation in Texas. These energy development companies have interests on state game lands and are committed to giving something back to wildlife and sportsmen. PHIL KASPER, GAME COMMISSION LAND MANAGEMENT GROUP SUPERVISOR 