EnvironmentAs Williams develops and operates the large-scale infrastructure that makes energy happen, we incorporate environmental considerations into our decision-making. 
We want to preserve the environment for future generations while improving standards of living today. Williams takes 
care to reduce emissions, safeguard biodiversity and 
manage natural resources responsibly.The Liberty compressor station in Towanda, Pennsylvania. In addition to being responsible stewards of the environment, we’re committed 
to connecting U.S. natural gas supplies to markets with growing demand for cleaner fuel.2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT“Williams is committed to the well-being 
of the communities in which it operates 
and to protection of the environment. 
The Atlantic Sunrise Environmental Stewardship Program in Pennsylvania is 
an exemplary model that recognizes the importance of working in a collaborative way to go above and beyond legally required mitigation to advance high value community projects. This is corporate leadership at its best.”.LARRY SELZER, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE CONSERVATION FUND11Environmental StewardshipOur intention is to protect the environment while providing access to reliable energy. We recognize that the assets we operate and the products we deliver can affect people, animals and the environment. Williams continuously manages environmental risk across our operations and meets or exceeds all applicable laws and regulations to minimize our environmental impacts. Williams is committed to facilitating full and open discussion to address responsible standards and practices where regulations do not exist. We want to achieve the greatest benefit for all our stakeholders.Our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy outlines 
our commitment to protect the environment and integrate environmental considerations into our core business activities. Every employee and contractor is responsible for adhering to this policy. Williams’ environmental, health and safety committee within the board of directors is responsible for governing our company-wide culture of environmental protection, as outlined in our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy.The Williams Integrated Management System (WIMS) 
is how we put our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy into action. The management system serves 
as our company-wide platform for providing policies, requirements, guidelines, procedures, standards and specifications to manage and reduce operational risk, including environmental compliance and potential environmental impacts. Our employees use WIMS 
every day to conduct critical work and manage environmental risks. Updates to WIMS are driven by changing regulatory requirements and our steadfast commitment to continuous improvement. For more information about WIMS, see page 9.Our Environmental Assessment Program helps reduce 
the risk of noncompliance by establishing an evaluation process to systematically assess Williams’ compliance with federal, state and local environmental regulations. 
The program also evaluates the effectiveness of our existing environmental programs.The Environmental Assessment Program team consists 
of internal and third-party environmental professionals working collaboratively across the company to identify best practices and opportunities for improvement 
in environmental performance. In some cases, the assessment findings result in updates to applicable practices and WIMS procedures.Environmental ComplianceWe are committed to operating with excellence by meeting or exceeding all applicable environmental laws and regulations. Diligent compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements is vital to managing 
our environmental impacts. The Williams Integrated Management System provides Williams-specific guidelines and policies for employees to follow, including compliance regulations and industry standards. As such, adherence to the management system serves as a company-wide platform for complying with regulations and company requirements.Williams employs a formal review process to track and communicate laws, regulations and permit requirements at each of our facilities. As part of the process, we use an automated compliance calendar to manage and track completion of recurring environmental compliance tasks. Reminders associated with each task go out to relevant employees ahead of due dates. Additionally, 
a dashboard is sent to management each month that includes the percentage of regulatory and nonregulatory tasks completed. In 2018, we spent $351,150 on 26 environmental-related notices of noncompliance.We strive to reduce the number of notices of noncompliance to zero. In 2017, we set a goal to reduce notices of noncompliance by 15 percent. We achieved that goal in 2018 with a 42 percent reduction, and set 
a new goal to reduce notices of noncompliance by an additional 15 percent in 2019.
Water ManagementWilliams recognizes that water is a precious resource and effectively managing any amount of water use 
is important. We conduct our operations in a manner 
that avoids negative impacts to water resources and ecosystems. Due to the nature of our operations, we 
do not consume material amounts of water. In fact, 
we discharge the majority of the water we use back 
into the original watershed.Our operations are subject to federal and state regulations and permitting requirements. That means we must meet stringent water quality standards to discharge the water we do use. Water that does not meet applicable discharge standards is treated to acceptable standards before returning it to the ground or surface. The majority of our water use is for hydrostatic testing of pipelines 
to identify leaks. In most cases, we return water used from hydrostatic testing to the same basin from which 
it originated. In 2018, approximately 51 million gallons 
of water were used for hydrostatic testing.Williams takes into account water resources when developing an asset or planning a new pipeline 
right-of-way. Our detailed routing and construction process enables us to identify the best route to minimize impacts to water resources. As part of the process, 
we seek to avoid forested wetlands and sensitive streams. For more information on managing potential impacts to land and biodiversity, see page 23.Williams protects water resources during construction, operation and retirement by managing environmental inspection and compliance programs to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permit conditions, including those for water.Waste ManagementWilliams focuses on conducting our business safely, efficiently and reliably. In accordance with the Williams Integrated Management System, we proactively 
reduce waste from our operations and effectively manage the waste we do generate. Our Williams Integrated Management System establishes a standardized process for managing hazardous and nonhazardous waste at company sites that includes waste characterization, storage, handling, packaging, transporting and disposal. This process, combined 
with training and compliance audits, forms the basis 
of our waste management approach.  Williams’ operations personnel manage day-to-day waste activities such as placing waste in oil drum containers, maintaining waste storage areas and conducting inspections. Our environmental specialists assist operations with waste classification, disposal 
and reporting. Common types of waste from our operations include used oil, pipeline coating, scrap metal and contaminated soils.We manage chemical inventory reporting through 
the Williams Integrated Management System 
operating requirement for Tier II reporting and hazard communication. Environmental specialists prepare 
and submit Tier II chemical inventory reports to the appropriate regulatory agencies annually. Williams’ Safety Data Sheets are publicly available to provide interested stakeholders with detailed information on 
using products in a safe and environmentally acceptable manner to meet local, state and federal requirements. Learn more about Williams Safety Data Sheets.Noise MitigationIt is our responsibility to mitigate the potential impact that elevated sound levels from our operations can have on the environment and humans. Noise control begins with the permitting and design of any noise-generating facility. We incorporate effective equipment and architectural acoustics to meet or exceed applicable federal, state and local noise regulations that establish maximum decibel levels.We use a variety of technologies to reduce sound 
levels including exhaust silencers, low-speed fans 
and centrifugal compressor units. We complement technology and equipment with building and landscaping designs that make use of trees and 
noise walls for sound deflection and absorption. 
As our operations expand or the local landscape evolves, we adapt to ensure that we remain in compliance with noise regulations.Spill PerformanceWilliams is committed to preventing all unintended spills and releases. The Williams Integrated Management System includes company-wide procedures for preventing spills and mitigating the impacts of potential spills. If a spill does occur, we have processes in 
place for investigating root causes and subsequently improving program management and other controls 
to reduce the risk of future events.Our spill prevention and response operating requirements help determine when spill plans are needed and how 
to develop, implement and maintain effective plans. 
The plans also ensure compliance with regulatory requirements for oil pollution prevention at our owned 
and operated assets. As part of our operations, we 
use tanks to store large quantities of hydrocarbon products, such as natural gas liquids. Williams has 
an extensive tank inspection and testing program that adheres to industry standards to prevent spills from 
our tanks. The program provides guidelines for tank inspections conducted by Williams personnel, as well 
as third-party certified tank inspectors.In 2018, Williams experienced 44 reportable spills tosoil and water representing 1,080 barrels of liquids. 
From 2017 to 2018, we reduced the number of reportable spills by 44 percent, and achieved the 2018 company-wide goal of a 15 percent year-over-year reduction in agency recordable reportable releases from 2017 levels. We take this commitment to continuous improvement seriously. Looking forward, the 2019 goal is to achieve an additional 15 percent reduction in agency recordable releases from 2018 levels. The bonus compensation opportunities we provide to operational employees are partially tied to achieving this reduction.We started measuring and reporting a 
near-miss-to-incident ratio in 2018 to enhance 
how we investigate, mitigate and share lessons 
learned before an actual incident or spill occurs. When laying pipelines, Williams may use horizontal directional drilling (HDD) to cross environmentally sensitive areas. To evaluate HDD feasibility and implement best practices, Williams employs dedicated HDD subject matter experts to oversee all aspects of the HDD project lifecycle. Williams also uses leading industry best practices and standards when evaluating, designing and constructing HDD projects. Our efforts led to zero reportable inadvertent drilling fluid releases to environmentally sensitive areas in 2018 when using the HDD construction method.In 2018, we exceeded our target to reduce reportable spills by 15 percent from 2017 levels. Climate ChangeWilliams develops large-scale infrastructure that delivers the natural gas Americans depend on for heating and electricity. As we seek to maximize natural gas resources to meet growing demand, we are working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our operations. In addition to complying with applicable regulations, we support effective, voluntary programs to reduce emissions and increase transparency of greenhouse gas data.Natural gas is a flexible, lower-emission fuel compared to other hydrocarbons such as coal or heating oil. Because the United States has an abundant supply of natural gas, using this local resource can help reduce the country’s demand for foreign energy sources, create jobs and reduce emissions. Natural gas emits up to 60 percent fewer greenhouse gas emissions than coal. Natural gas is also the ideal partner for renewable energy sources like wind and solar power since it can quickly provide power when renewable energy sources are not available. This complementary role is the key to adding more renewable energy to the power grid in large volumes. Our commitment to mitigating the risks of climate change extends to all levels of the organization, from operations managers to the board of directors. The nominating and governance committee within the board 
of directors has primary responsibility for providing oversight and guidance to the board of directors on environmental, social and governance matters.“As one of the nation’s largest gatherers, processors and transporters of natural 
gas, Williams has played 
a critical role of bringing a clean 
and affordable resource to electric generation, industry and homes, resulting in cleaner air. We recognize the importance of reducing emissions 
at our facilities and pipelines and 
we do this by exploring, understanding 
and acting upon opportunities driven 
by energy efficiencies, and improving operational best practices. Our 
track record demonstrates we can 
reduce emissions while still growing 
our business.”MICHEAL DUNN, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT 
AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICERNet Generation versus CO2 Emissions in the US Power Sector2,5002,0001,5001,0005000Million Metric Tons of Carbon Dioxide4,500,0004,000,0003,500,0003,000,0002,500,0002,000,0001,500,0001,000,000500,0000Net Generation in Thousand Megawatt Hours20172005Million Metric Tons of Carbon DioxideNet Generation in Thousand Megawatt Hours	Total Electric Power Sector CO2 Emissions	Nuclear	Hydroelectric	Petroleum	Solar/Wind	Other	Coal	Natural GasMethane Reduction InitiativesMethane made up 14 percent of our assets’ greenhouse gas emissions profile in 2018. Since methane is a greenhouse gas, we pay particular attention to reducing methane emissions. In August 2018, Williams and other members of the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America made a commitment to continuously minimize methane emissions from interstate natural gas transmission and storage operations. The commitment focuses 
on reductions from pipeline blowdowns, pneumatic controllers, compressor packing and leaking components.We have also been a member of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Natural Gas STAR Program 
since its founding in 1993. The program is a voluntary partnership that encourages oil and natural gas companies to adopt cost-effective technologies and practices that improve operational efficiency and reduce methane emissions. As a Natural Gas STAR Program member, we successfully implemented and reported 
pressure-reduction using recompression to lower gas line pressure before pipeline maintenance. These measures help reduce methane emissions and make more natural gas available for sale. In 2018, when 
using recompression, pipeline blowdown greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 83.5 percent. The 
gas recovered by utilizing recompression ahead of pipeline blowdowns in 2018 resulted in 53,160 metric 
tons of methane, or 1.33 million metric tons of carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions not being emitted. Most recently, Williams joined Our Nation’s Energy ONE Future Coalition, Inc., a group of natural gas companies working to voluntarily reduce methane emissions by identifying policy and technical solutions that better manage emissions associated with the production, processing, transmission and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future members set a goal to collectively reduce methane emissions in the natural gas supply chain to 1 percent by 2025.WE MAKE ENERGY HAPPEN™ SPOTLIGHTNortheast Supply Enhancement ProjectThe Northeast Supply Enhancement (NESE) project is a proposed $1 billion enhancement of existing energy infrastructure in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York in time for the 2020 winter heating season. Once complete, the project will serve growing natural gas demand in the Northeast, including the 1.8 million customers served 
by National Grid in Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island and Long Island. The project enhancements will help the existing pipeline system transport an additional 400 million cubic feet of natural gas supply per day to northeastern consumers through National Grid—the largest distributor of natural gas in the northeastern United States.The project creates the energy infrastructure necessary for National Grid to continue its planned oil to natural gas conversion program. The project also allows customers to reduce local air emissions by 4,300 tons over 
the 15-year minimal life of the heating equipment. Within the first year, the project will result in an initial annual reduction of 300 tons of local air emissions that cause smog, acid rain and particulates that have negative 
health and environmental impacts. In addition, NESE aligns with New York’s clean energy transition policy, 
which aims to achieve a 32-million-ton reduction in carbon emissions between 2015 and 2030. NESE will advance New York City nearly 10 percent toward meeting its carbon emissions goals by: 	Displacing 900,000 barrels of heating oil in year one of the project and 13 million barrels annually, after 15 years.	Ultimately reducing CO2 emissions by the equivalent of removing nearly 500,000 cars from the road.	Decreasing CO2 emissions in New York City and Long Island by 200,000 tons in the first year of the project and 3 million tons annually after the 15 years of conversions have been completed.17Mitigating Greenhouse 
Gas EmissionsOur Williams Integrated Management System includes requirements for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions and complying with federal reporting requirements. 
We prepare and submit an annual greenhouse gas emissions inventory to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for our midstream gathering, natural gas processing and interstate transmission and storage operations. We also track and report Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, as shown on the right. Scope 1 emissions are those that come from operating our assets.These emissions sources are the combustion of natural gas to drive our engines, process emissions, and vented and fugitive emissions. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from purchased electricity to power our buildings and facilities. In 2018, we consumed 2.2 billion kilowatt-hours of energy at our Williams owned and operated assets.Accurately tracking greenhouse gas emissions with measurable data enables us to identify opportunities to reduce energy consumption and increase operational efficiency. Our environmental specialists and operations managers use this data to develop and implement initiatives to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions at our compressor stations, processing plants and storage facilities. Examples include conducting leak detection and repair assessments, installing electric motors on compressors and installing emission combustion devices.
In part, due to these efforts we reduced our reported methane emissions from gas processing plants and transmission compressor stations more than 53 percent since 2012. Over the same period, the throughput at these facilities increased 21 percent. As a show of commitment to increased transparency on greenhouse gas emissions, Williams will be responding to the CDP, formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project, in 2019. The CDP is an international organization that works with shareholders and corporations to disclose the carbon emissions of participating companies.2018 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GreenhouseGas Emissions (Million Metric Tons CO2e)*12108642010.4801.096Scope 1Scope 2*Gross direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions in millions of metric tons of 
CO2-equivalent. The consolidation approach is operational control and includes CO2, CH4, N2O. Emissions are based on calendar years and are calculated using the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule methodology for all assets that Williams owned and operated for the full calendar year. Excludes emissions from office buildings and company vehicles. Global warming potential rates are 25 for CH4 and 298 for N2O. Gross location based energy indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions in millions of metric tons of CO2-equivalent. The consolidation approach is operational control. Emissions were calculated using U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Power Profiler Emissions Tool 2016, using emission factors from U.S. Environmental Protection Agency eGRID2016 multiplied by kWh energy use for all assets that Williams owns and operates. Corporate building energy use is excluded.18Collaborating on Climate ChangeOne of our greatest challenges is to demonstrate 
our commitment to responsible energy infrastructure development in a way that is credible to all stakeholders, including those who oppose natural gas development. We engage with communities, nongovernmental organizations, industry associations and government 
to conduct collaborative research, listen to different perspectives and share our position.Williams participated in a series of studies championed 
by the Environmental Defense Fund to better understand methane emissions from the entire U.S. natural gas supply chain. We directly participated in both the gathering and processing and the transmission and storage studies 
to develop new estimates of sector methane emissions. 
In addition to providing funding for both studies, we also provided requested facility data, hosted measurement crews at our facilities and actively participated on 
the project’s technical and steering committees. 
The results of these studies give greater insight into 
actual methane emissions sources and magnitudes, 
and show the need for updated emission factors for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency greenhouse gas emissions inventory. These new datasets can be used 
by industry and governing agencies when assessing reduction targets and potential reduction strategies.New climate change laws or greenhouse gas regulations could result in increased costs to operate 
and maintain our facilities, require the installation of 
new emission controls or change how we manage 
our greenhouse gas reporting. Williams engages with 
state and federal agencies during the rule-making process to ensure that proposed legislation and regulations related to climate change are common sense and technically feasible.WE MAKE ENERGY HAPPEN™ SPOTLIGHTRenewable Natural GasWilliams has partnered with energy companies in Washington and Ohio, as well as a public utility district, to transport landfill-produced methane. Natural gas, specifically methane, is a byproduct of the waste decomposition process that occurs in landfills. Expertise in collecting and processing methane from landfills for consumption, paired with Williams’ expertise in pipeline operations, makes for a win-win for all, including the environment.The Roosevelt Regional Landfill near Bickelton in south central Washington, has a landfill gas-to-energy project that produces renewable electricity generated by burning landfill gases. In May 2017, the H.W. Hill Renewable Natural Gas meter station was constructed, which includes a 2.9-mile, dual six-inch pipeline interconnect 
with Williams’ Northwest Pipeline. Williams also has worked for more than a decade with Puget Sound Energy 
and Bio Energy Washington at the Cedar Hills Landfill in Maple Valley, Washington. Renewable Natural Gas 
is considered by the Environmental Protection Agency to have the lowest “well-to-wheel” emissions of all transportation fuels, including electricity.In the Northeast, we brought our first renewables project into service on our Flint Gas Gathering System in summer 2018. Partnering with Montauk Energy, Williams now operates a receipt point for natural gas produced by the Apex Landfill in Amsterdam, Ohio. Methane is captured by drilling hundreds of small wells across the landfill’s surface, then gathered at an onsite treatment facility where the gas composition is brought to Williams’ pipeline specifications. After ensuring the landfill-produced methane is pipeline quality, Williams receives and markets the gas on our system.19Air EmissionsTo be good stewards of the environment, we seek 
to responsibly manage our impact on critical natural resources. Williams recognizes the importance of controlling air emissions, including volatile organic compounds, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, which can pose environmental risk and impact human health. We manage air emissions from our operations by maximizing operational efficiency and ensuring compliance with federal and state legal requirements including permitting requirements.Our air quality management procedure within the Williams Integrated Management System establishes a standard approach for the construction, operation and maintenance of assets that have the potential to emit regulated pollutants. The procedure outlines the required process for tracking and submitting air quality data to maintain compliance with applicable regulations and permits. 
We provide air quality permit training for employees 
who maintain our facilities and support capital projects.Williams implements operational measures to reduce emissions where technically and economically feasible. These measures include routine equipment tuning and maintenance to improve fuel efficiency and operating practices such as using infrared cameras for leak detection and repair. Emissions testing on combustion units is performed to ensure the equipment is operating properly and in accordance with emission limitations. We also conduct ambient air monitoring programs and catalyst evaluation programs at select facilities. We continue to work toward year-over-year improvements.Williams actively engages in industry research focused on reducing emissions. For example, we provided funding and technical expertise to research projects spearheaded by the Pipeline Research Council International and the Gas Machinery Research Council 
to increase operational and fuel efficiency. We also participate in industry associations that provide opportunities to discuss current and developing air emission technologies and work practices. Examples include the American Petroleum Institute, GPA Midstream Association, Southern Gas Association 
and Interstate Natural Gas Association of America.In 2018, we surpassed our target to reduce reportable air releases by 15 percent from 2017 levels by achieving a 21 percent reduction. In 2019, we aim to reduce reportable air releases 15 percent from 2018 levels.Transco Emissions Reduction ProgramIn August 2018, Williams submitted a proposal to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to execute a voluntary Transco Emissions Reduction Program. Transco is a 10,200-mile interstate natural gas transmission pipeline system, extending from South Texas to New York City. The Transco pipeline system is a major provider 
of natural gas to the northeastern and southeastern states. Compressor stations help move gas along the 
Gulf Coast and to 12 southeastern and Atlantic seaboard states, including supplying natural gas to major metropolitan areas in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The Transco Emissions Reduction Program will significantly reduce key air pollutants, particularly nitrogen oxides and methane emitted from compressor stations along the Transco pipeline system. Over a five-year period, we plan to replace approximately 138 natural gas-driven compressor units with gas turbine-driven or 
electric-motor-driven compressor units. The new units will be outfitted with state-of-the-art emission control technology. The Transco Emissions Reduction Program is projected to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by 
an estimated 72 percent system-wide. We also anticipate a 55 percent reduction in methane emissions from 
the compressor units.As shown in the graph below, Transco’s system-wide NOX emissions (tons per year) decreased by approximatively 55 percent by the NOX State Implementation Plans (SIP) Call’s May 31, 2007 compliance deadline. Since that time, Transco’s system-wide NOX emissions have continued a downward trend while Transco system throughputs have continued to increase. Contributors to this downward NOx emissions trend include additional upgrades and replacements of older compression equipment on a non-programmatic basis, installation of new, lower-emitting compression as part of expansion projects, and expanded customer access to shorter-haul natural gas sourcing options from Northeast production areas.WE MAKE ENERGY HAPPEN™ SPOTLIGHTTransco Total Reported NOx Emissions (Tons)100,00080,00060,00040,00020,000087,01285,86876,68474,75366,08458,88448,10441,77940,02439,14636,05333,34432,84026,83418,40714,25312,67212,73611,261200420062003200720022008200920012010200020111999200520122013201420152016201721WE MAKE ENERGY HAPPEN™ SPOTLIGHTEastern Hellbender Salamander Partnership ProjectWilliams works with communities, nonprofit organizations and governmental agencies to conduct voluntary projects that help improve or preserve wildlife habitat in the areas where we operate. We focus on projects 
with the highest priority and greatest environmental benefit. A recent example is our involvement in the eastern hellbender salamander partnership project. The hellbender is a completely aquatic salamander and the largest 
of its kind in North America. Unfortunately, populations have declined dramatically throughout its range in recent years. The Ohio Division of Wildlife considers the hellbender salamander endangered.Williams’ voluntary contributions to the eastern hellbender salamander partnership project support critical conservation efforts to re-establish the population and preserve the habitat. Notably, our investment contributes 
to collecting wild hellbender salamander eggs, raising the salamanders for three years in secure facilities and then releasing the salamanders into the wild. The innovative project represents a collaborative effort between Williams, government agencies, zoo facilities, nongovernmental organizations and educational institutions 
to stabilize the declining eastern hellbender salamander population. As part of this effort, Williams partnered 
with Western Reserve Land Conservancy to conserve 131 acres in Yellow Creek, Ohio, which serve as 
a hellbender release point and youth habitat.22Biodiversity 
& Land UseProtecting BiodiversityWe believe that developing natural gas infrastructure 
in a responsible way is vital to the sustainability of 
our company. To that end, Williams works to protect biodiversity through careful planning and management of our operations and assets. We strive to leave a better world for future generations. Our biodiversity practices are governed by regulatory and company-driven policies captured within the Williams Integrated Management System.Williams uses a systematic approach to incorporate biodiversity into the planning process of all proposed projects. We conduct extensive research to identify sensitive habitats within a proposed project footprint. Our assessments include geographic information system analyses, computer-based reviews and site visits to pinpoint sensitive environmental and cultural resource areas. We pay attention to streams and wetlands; rare, threatened or endangered species; 
and culturally important sites.Based on the results of our assessments, we implement site-specific management plans that avoid or minimize negative impacts to areas with high biodiversity, cultural significance or water resources. To the extent possible, we design our projects to use existing rights-of-way 
and avoid areas with the highest biodiversity. We follow the hierarchy of avoid, minimize and mitigate as 
required by federal permitting agencies on infrastructure development projects. Examples of such coordination activities are depicted below.If sensitive areas cannot be avoided by rerouting during the design phase, Williams works closely with state and federal agencies to obtain the necessary permits and approvals to minimize impacts. We comply with all applicable regulations, including those regulations promulgated or enforced by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Common mitigation measures include revising timing, minimizing construction footprints and implementing specialized construction methods.We develop these plans in collaboration with interest groups, biodiversity experts, community organizations and land management agencies. In 2018, 140 species were listed on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) Red List in counties where Williams operates, as shown below.Portions of Williams’ northeast and northwest 
U.S. pipeline systems are located in sloped, 
landslide-susceptible terrain. Landslides that occur 
on a pipeline right-of-way can potentially impact pipeline integrity and the environment. Williams continually monitors and remediates landslides using field and aerial patrols along with innovative yearly 
light detection and ranging (LIDAR) surveys. 
New and existing landslides are continually evaluated and repaired when necessary to prevent negative impacts. Williams also assesses landslide potential on proposed pipelines. We implement landslide mitigation measures during new pipeline construction to prevent landslides from occurring on new right-of-way.Williams is committed to reducing the environmental impacts of pipeline construction in environments with steep slopes. Williams is one of eight companies that has committed to following The Nature Conservancy guidelines for Improving Steep-Slope Pipeline Construction to Reduce Impacts to Natural Resources. The guidelines help reduce the risks of landslides, slips and erosion that occur as a result of tree clearing and earthwork performed to install pipelines.Biodiversity ProjectsGreater Sage-GrouseIn Wyoming, Williams is coordinating with upstream customers, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management and the Wyoming Game and Fish Department on oil and gas development plans that will identify avoidance, minimization 
and mitigation measures to protect greater sage-grouse habitat in the state.Lesser Prairie ChickenIn western Oklahoma and the Texas panhandle, Williams is participating 
in the Western Association of Fish 
and Wildlife Agencies lesser prairie chicken Range-wide Plan and Candidate Conservation Agreement with Assurances to ensure that construction and operations are protective of lesser prairie chicken populations and habitat.Forested BatIn Georgia, Williams worked with 
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources to develop multiple conservation and mitigation projects for the 113-mile Dalton Expansion pipeline that crossed portions of forested bat habitat. One of the projects involved Williams helping 
to underwrite an innovative program developed by researchers at Georgia State University to treat bats threatened by the deadly disease known as white-nose syndrome.IUCN Red List Species Critically Endangered 26 Endangered 42 Vulnerable 30 Near Threatened 12 Least Concern 30 Land UseWe understand the importance of managing projects throughout the entire lifecycle of our operations. We responsibly retire and remediate our assets to preserve the land we use for our projects. We strive to return 
land to its original state and create opportunities for beneficial reuse. In 2018, Williams’ Environmental Services team managed approximately 75 active remediation sites.We are dedicated to remediating retired assets. Williams’ Asset Retirement and Removal Obligation is a planning mechanism to establish and record liabilities for assets that will be retired in the future. The objective is to identify the environmental considerations and proposed costs of retiring an asset so we can proactively manage potential impacts. 
We initiate a property assessment and subsurface investigation prior to any demolition or abandonment activity. The findings from the assessments help determine the most appropriate approach for restoring land once it is no longer used as part of our operations.All our facility and pipeline projects are committed to appropriately remediating the land used during our operations. We work to maintain and re-establish native plant and animal species, as well as the contours 
of the land to preserve soil and water resources. Our remediation plans meet both state and local regulatory standards. We also work to employ best practices that exceed regulatory compliance with these standards. For example, in 2018, we changed our restoration seed mixes at 109 northeast gathering locations to promote both 
plant and pollinator diversity. This policy is a voluntary effort to respond to global declines in pollinator species.Retiring the Canyon 
Station PlatformAfter nearly two decades of handling billions of cubic feet of natural gas, Williams’ Canyon Station platform 
off the coast of Alabama was retired in 2018. We knew that completely dismantling the retired structure would disrupt the complex marine communities that inhabit 
the platform. Williams assembled a cross-functional team to decommission the platform so it could become part of an artificial reef program managed by the State of Alabama Marine Resources Division. In doing so, we were able to promote a thriving aquatic ecosystem and avoid costs associated with removing the infrastructure. In 2018, the retired platform was disassembled into two massive pieces. The 3,600-ton topside was lifted and placed on a transportation barge to be sent to shore for scrapping, while the 1,200-ton steel frame supporting the deck (known as the jacket) was cut 110 feet below water line and lowered to the floor of the Gulf of Mexico. The jacket will become home to barnacles, mussels, sponges and other aquatic invertebrates, and will serve as a way station for migratory fish from red snapper to whale sharks seeking food and shelter.