GovernanceWe believe it takes more than good business results to be 
a great company. To make energy happen, we act ethically and with integrity. We actively engage with shareholders 
and other stakeholders to communicate our viewpoints and performance on topics that impact our business results. Our efforts are underpinned by the Williams board of directors.Williams’ Willow Creek natural gas processing plant in Rio Blanco County, Colorado. Located 
in the Piceance Basin, the plant can process 500 million cubic feet of natural gas per day and recover nearly 30,000 barrels of natural gas liquids per day to meet customer demands.2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT“I’m pleased that oversight for the company’s ESG efforts resides with the board and 
its various committees. The collective experience and diverse perspectives of 
the board are valuable resources for the company to draw upon.”ALAN ARMSTRONG, PRESIDENT 
AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER45Ethics & IntegrityFor more than a century, Williams has created a 
legacy of operating with ethics and integrity. Our 
Core Values and Beliefs help drive our commitment 
to ethical conduct and guide our everyday activities. Williams is committed to upholding the highest standards of ethics and compliance through effective policies and training programs. We designed the Williams Ethics and Compliance Program to effectively communicate and manage key elements of ethics and integrity, including our Core Values, Code of Business Conduct and guidelines for reporting suspected violations. Williams’ chief ethics 
and compliance officer has oversight responsibility for our Ethics and Compliance Program.The Williams ethics advisory panel is tasked with assessing the effectiveness of the program and recommending enhancements as necessary. In coordination with the Ethics Advisory Panel, subject matter experts and internal audit team, we conduct 
an annual risk assessment to review compliance 
with our ethics policies.Our Code of Business Conduct, approved by the Williams board of directors, sets the ethical conduct expectations for officers, directors and employees at 
all levels. It also applies to Williams’ subsidiaries and in certain cases, our joint ventures. The Code of Business Conduct serves as a practical guide for complying 
with all laws, avoiding conflicts of interest, maintaining 
a safe and inclusive workforce and reporting ethical concerns. We also have supplemental policies to support compliance with U.S. regulations, including antitrust, insider trading and commercial bribery. All employees must complete our Code of Business Conduct ethics and compliance training annually. As 
part of the computer-based training, employees must acknowledge that they have read and understand the Code of Business Conduct expectations. In addition, senior leadership must complete an 11-question certification to confirm their understanding of Code 
of Business Conduct expectations. New employees 
must complete the training within the first 30 days of employment. In 2018, 100 percent of Williams’ employees completed compliance and ethics training courses.We strictly prohibit any act of corruption, including practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion, conflict of interest and the giving or receiving of gifts. The Williams board of directors audit committee has established procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters.46Reporting ViolationsWe encourage our employees to report suspected violations of any law, regulation or company policy. Williams offers several confidential mechanisms for reporting, including the Williams Business Ethics Resource Center, the Williams Action Line and our online ethics mailing address. The Williams Action Line is available to our employees 24 hours a 
day, 7 days a week, and is operated by an independent third party to ensure confidentiality. We proactively communicate these resources through the Williams Ethics and Compliance Program and on our internal and external websites. It is against company policy for employees to engage in or tolerate retaliation or any form of harassment directed against an employee who reports a suspected problem in good faith. Williams will evaluate all alleged violations of law or company policies and will assess the need for and level of investigation. Williams will determine the appropriate next steps, and where warranted, take appropriate corrective 
action including disciplinary actions, up to and including dismissal. The Williams board of directors annually reviews 
the Code of Business Conduct and receives quarterly reporting regarding the Ethics and Compliance Program.2018 Concerns by Code of Business Conduct Category2018 Concerns by Reporting Channel5193319	Human Resources	Action Line	Management	Other Reporting Channels	Business Ethics 
Resource Center	Our Work Environment	Health, Safety & 
the Environment	Conflicts of Interest	Protecting 
Company Assets74Total: 203Total: 203314013451Respecting Human RightsWe recognize our responsibility to respect human rights and avoid causing or contributing to human rights infringements through our business actions. We support principles aimed at protecting internationally recognized human rights.In 2018, we developed a formal Human Rights Policy and Statement that outlines our commitment to respect human rights and avoid complicity in human rights abuses. This Statement includes our expectations related to workplace discrimination, diversity and inclusion, workplace conditions, freedom of association and indigenous peoples. Our commitment applies to everyone involved in Williams’ operations including employees, officers, contractors, leased workers, suppliers, vendors and customers. In situations where Williams does not have overall control of operations, 
we will take reasonable steps to ensure that involved parties follow human rights best practices. Williams strives to respect human rights through its supply chain by encouraging actions that are consistent with our Code of Business Conduct and by partnering with suppliers that share our corporate values and beliefs. Specifically, 
we encourage suppliers to follow best practices in the areas of freely chosen employment, working hours, respect in 
the workplace, wages and benefits, and health and safety. For information on supply chain management, see page 40.47Board LeadershipGood governance is the foundation for long-term business success. The Williams board of directors is responsible for establishing broad corporate policies and overseeing overall company performance. Board members are kept informed about the business 
through discussions with the chief executive officer 
and other officers, regular reports and board and committee meetings. In 2018, the board met 10 times.The board of directors is responsible for influencing organizational planning, strategy and risk management. As part of this effort, the board conducts an annual strategy session based on key topics of interest. The top 10 risks are identified and a risk tolerance is assigned for each. The risks often directly or indirectly correspond with sustainability topics for the company. For more information on risk management, see the spotlight to the right.
Board StructureIn 2018, the Williams board of directors consisted of 
10 accomplished and capable directors. All of the directors are independent with the single exception of our president and chief executive officer. At this time, the board’s current preferred governance structure is 
to have an independent director serve as chairman of the board. The board of directors is required to stand for election at our annual meeting of stockholders. 
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines serve as a framework for governing the board of directors.The Williams board has four standing committees: 
audit; compensation and management development; nominating and governance; and environmental, health and safety. Each standing committee includes at least three independent directors. The committees provide updates at each regular board meeting to keep the entire board of directors abreast of pertinent information. For detailed information on each board committee, please see the board committees and charters page of our website.While sustainability topics can arise in the context of 
all committees and the full board, the nominating 
and governance committee has primary responsibility 
for providing oversight and guidance on environmental, social and governance matters. Additionally, the environmental, health and safety committee is responsible for reviewing, monitoring and reporting to the full board on the company’s environmental, health and safety performance, including reviewing key metrics and reviewing compliance with applicable regulations.Sustainability topics of particular interest to the 
board of directors include cybersecurity, process 
safety and asset integrity. The nominating and governance committee receives progress updates 
on the development of our Sustainability Report 
during regularly scheduled committee meetings.Board Selection Process We value a diverse board of directors that provides 
a range of viewpoints and perspectives. We seek 
highly qualified, non-employee candidates with, among other qualities, demonstrated leadership abilities, a reputation for honesty and integrity and a commitment 
to represent shareholder interests. The nominating and governance committee is responsible for recommending new directors to the board who reflect an appropriate balance of experience, skills and characteristics.We annually assess diversity in regard to geography, race, gender, ethnicity and age as part of our director selection and nomination process. Our goal is to maintain a board of directors with diverse occupational and personal backgrounds to obtain a range of perspectives.The board, in conjunction with the compensation 
and management development committee, maintains 
a process for planning orderly succession for the 
chief executive officer and other executive positions. 
The mandated retirement date for a director is the 
first annual meeting of stockholders following the 
director’s 75th birthday, unless otherwise voted on. 
The performance of the board and its committees is annually evaluated through a self-assessment survey.Executive CompensationThe compensation and management development committee oversees the establishment and administration of Williams’ compensation programs, including incentive compensation and equity-based plans. In coordination with the full board of directors, 
the committee works to ensure our compensation programs align the interests of our executives with 
those of our long-term shareholders.In connection with the company’s 2018 annual meeting, more than 97 percent of the votes cast in respect of the stockholder advisory vote on executive compensation were cast in favor of the company’s executive compensation program. Safety metrics comprise 10 percent of the annual incentive program targets for all employees, including our executives. For more details on our executive compensation program, see the 2018 Proxy Statement.2018 Board Demographics25%8%8%92%92%75%	Ethnically Diverse	Not Ethnically Diverse	30–50 Years Old	Over 50 Years Old	Female	MaleRisk-Based PrioritizationAs part of the board’s oversight of the risk management process, Williams utilizes a risk-based prioritization system to ensure that dollars are invested in the opportunities that provide value across all key areas of risk. 
We record pre-project risk ranking across five categories of risk: business impact, public health and safety, environment, compliance and regulatory, and employee health and safety. The pre-project and estimated 
post-project risk ranks provide an estimate of the risk reduction that can be achieved if each opportunity 
is executed. This risk reduction is factored against the estimated cost of each opportunity along with 
other meaningful prioritization factors to arrive at a proposed selection of opportunities to execute within 
a budget year.The inclusion of risk-rank and risk-reduction information across the entire universe of project opportunities provides Williams with a tremendous ability to ensure our dollars are spent where they can affect meaningful 
and measurable risk reduction. Opportunities that carry higher risk and are considered for deferment are elevated to higher levels in the organization to ensure visibility into the associated risks that are being 
accepted if spend is deferred.WE MAKE ENERGY HAPPEN™ SPOTLIGHT49Shareholder RelationsWe value the direct engagement we have with shareholders on a variety of topics. Our corporate governance policies and activities are designed to provide our shareholders with company information that is accurate, timely and meaningful. Williams’ philosophy is to focus our efforts on areas that are significant to 
the long-term sustainability of our business. We believe this focus will best serve all stakeholders, including shareholders, employees and the communities where we do business.Our dialogue with shareholders allows us to address issues, share relevant information and align on facts. Williams frequently engages with investors relating 
to our company’s business strategy and financial performance. We also discuss environmental, social and governance matters, including executive compensation and safety performance.In 2018, members of our executive management team attended nine investor conferences, engaged in six non-deal roadshows and hosted our annual analyst 
day. During our analyst day, Williams’ management gave in-depth presentations covering all the company’s energy infrastructure businesses.We also host a quarterly earnings call, during which 
our executive management team responds to analyst questions regarding both historical results and 
forward-looking information. Our dedicated investor relations group receives and responds to shareholder telephone calls and other communications. Shareholders can also communicate directly with our board of 
directors by contacting our corporate secretary 
or the chairman of the board.Williams actively works to incorporate feedback from our shareholders. In recent years, some of Williams’ investors have asked the company to offer more insight into our sustainability practices. With this feedback in mind, Williams is working to increase transparency related to our environmental, social and governance performance, including developing this 2018 Sustainability Report. Williams will also be responding to the CDP, formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project, in 2019. The CDP is an international organization that works with shareholders and corporations to disclose the carbon emissions of participating companies.“Williams appreciates that environmental, social, governance is a concern to our stakeholders, as it is to people who invest in our company. How we minimize and mitigate ESG associated risks is a top business priority for us.”JOHN CHANDLER, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERGovernment RelationsGovernment support for energy infrastructure and natural gas markets in the United States is an important component of the future growth of the company. Williams works with government stakeholders and regulatory agencies at the federal, state and local levels on policies that impact our current and future operations. Our government affairs and outreach team educates policymakers and other government stakeholders on our projects and policy positions. In 2018, we engaged on a variety of issues, including energy infrastructure, pipeline project permitting, pipeline safety and tax policies.Political ContributionsWilliams makes political contributions that support the advancement of the company’s interests and those of our industry. Williams’ political action committee (WILLCO PAC) giving and corporate political giving include bipartisan contributions to federal and state campaign committees and candidates for elected office. When Williams makes contributions to campaigns for candidates, as well as WILLCO PAC contributions, our legal department reviews to ensure adherence with applicable laws and regulations.In 2018, Williams’ corporate political contributions included $460,000 in total disbursements to the Democratic Governors Association and the Republican Governors Association; $250,000 to the Senate Majority Fund of Colorado; and $42,100 to various state-level candidates and organizations. WILLCO PAC is an independent, nonpartisan entity that raises voluntary contributions from eligible Williams’ employees to support candidates for congressional and state offices where permitted by law. Employee participation in WILLCO PAC is strictly voluntary. The nominating and governance committee of the board of directors annually reviews the company’s political contributions, including spending related to trade associations and other tax-exempt organizations. For additional information, please see our political contributions section.The 2018 Williams political action committee board51Trade AssociationsWilliams belongs to a number of trade associations at the national, state and local levels. Active membership in trade associations helps us amplify the industry voice and collectively work on public policy priorities. We serve in lead roles on technical and public policy committees at various associations and participate in association advocacy and public education efforts. The primary trade associations we engage with include the following:	American Petroleum Institute	American Society of Mechanical Engineers	American Society of Safety Engineers	Association of Oil Pipelines	GPA Midstream	Interstate Natural Gas Association of America 	Marcellus Shale Coalition	National Petroleum Council	National Society of Professional Engineers	Northwest Gas Association	Southern Gas Association	Tulsa Regional Chamber of Commerce In 2018, the GPA Midstream Association presented awards to a select group of individuals and member companies contributing to the midstream industry. Alan Armstrong, president and chief executive officer of Williams, received 
the Hanlon Award for efforts to elevate the association’s advocacy presence. The Hanlon Award is the association’s highest honor.These associations have varied positions on key public policy issues that are often, but not always, aligned with those of Williams. Williams discloses all expenditures of corporate funds to these associations used for nondeductible lobbying and political expenditures on our political contributions webpage.CybersecurityEffectively managing cybersecurity risks is crucial to protecting our facilities, operations and business-critical information from cyberattacks. Williams implements preventive measures, company-wide policies and training courses to avert unauthorized access to 
our physical locations and computerized systems. 
In 2018, we blocked more than 198 million emails, internet access attempts and malicious actions.We conduct regular internal audits and risk strategy sessions to assess cybersecurity threats and 
respond accordingly. To complement this effort, Williams contracts with a third party to perform facility 
penetration tests and maturity assessments of our corporate and operations networks. We develop a quarterly Cybersecurity Board Report to communicate our performance and any identified risks to the 
board of directors.Williams has several policies in place related to cybersecurity, from data classification and protection 
to password management. Our cybersecurity incident response policy provides a structured and systematic response process for incidents that can impact Williams and any applicable third parties. The policy includes step-by-step guidelines for establishing a timely, consistent response to mitigate the effects of any security incidents on our customers, partners and employees.Our cybersecurity awareness and training standard helps ensure that all employees, contractors and vendors are aware of cybersecurity risks. We require everyone with 
a Williams network identification to complete annual cybersecurity training to reduce risk exposure. We also deploy simulated phishing emails to practice identifying and responding to email attacks. Employees or contractors that fail a phishing email test are required 
to complete additional training. In 2018, 99 percent of 
our employees completed cybersecurity training.Williams supplements training programs with awareness initiatives that call attention to cybersecurity through posters, presentations, newsletters and events. Every October during national Cybersecurity Awareness Month, we host a Know Williams event intended to inform employees about the different types of cybersecurity risks. Our 2018 event focused on identity theft.