SocialWe could not make energy happen without our employees. We operate in a manner that protects our employees and contractors while safeguarding the public. We also recognize our responsibility to positively impact local communities through trusted relationships, meaningful investments 
and economic opportunities.Williams offers an Early Career Professional Development Program for business, engineering and information technology graduates to build technical skills and business acumen. These two engineers at the Markham gas processing plant 
in Texas are part of a three-year rotational program that accelerates learning and introduces employees to various facets of our business.2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT“Our employees are our most valuable resource at Williams, and we have a longstanding commitment to attracting, developing and retaining the very best talent in the industry. We take pride in 
our high-performing culture, and our low turnover rate—among the lowest in the industry—speaks to the value we achieve 
by investing in our people so they can 
reach their full potential.”DEBBIE COWAN, CHIEF HUMAN 
RESOURCES OFFICER27SafetyPersonnel SafetyIt is imperative that every employee and contractor return home from work safe and healthy each day. Protecting our workforce is not only the right thing to 
do, it is essential to preserving our long-term business success. Williams empowers all employees and contractors to stop work if they feel a situation is unsafe. This includes stopping employees and other third-party contractor personnel at any location. We regularly recognize our employees for their courage to ensure 
a safe work environment.Our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy provides 
a framework for integrating safety performance into our core business activities. Every employee and contractor 
is responsible for implementing this policy. The environmental, health and safety committee within the board of directors is responsible for governance and oversight regarding environmental, health and safety matters, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The committee focuses on ensuring that the company maintains a safety culture focused on protecting the health and safety of employees, contractors, customers, the public and the environment. The Williams Integrated Management System (WIMS) is how we put our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy into action.
The system serves as our company-wide platform to manage and reduce risks in our operations, including safety risks. We use WIMS as a guide to design, build, operate and maintain our assets. For more information about WIMS, see page 9.Training & AwarenessWilliams is committed to maintaining operational excellence to mitigate the safety risks associated 
with our industry. As part of that commitment, Williams implements robust training programs regarding our policies and procedures to ensure employees can safely and successfully execute their responsibilities. We provide an annual training plan tailored to each employee based on the varying needs of office, field support and core field employees. All employees are placed in one of three required training tiers based 
on title and function in the organization. Additional training may be requested by the employee or employee’s supervisor based on the specific needs 
of the job. We have processes in place to assess training proficiency, including written knowledge 
checks and performance-based evaluations. We also implement behavior-based initiatives to minimize safety risks from human factors. For example, our Life Critical Focus Program is designed to 
promote a daily culture of ongoing awareness of our 
12 life-critical operating requirements. In 2018, we decided to re-energize our focus on the life-critical operating requirements. Williams’ leaders and employees received informational material each month designed to raise awareness of the 12 requirements. Using this information, senior management engaged employees with examples of how to apply the requirements in everyday activities.“Williams’ employees genuinely care about 
each other, which is the foundation of our safety culture. We're empowered to stop work if we recognize a hazard or risk that could result in damage or harm. Our strong reporting culture and focus on our Life Critical Operating Requirements drive learning and continuous improvement.”CANDYCE FLY LEE, VICE PRESIDENT OF ROCKIES GATHERING AND PROCESSING12 Life Critical Operating RequirementsIncident ManagementWe maintain a strong safety culture by identifying, mitigating and communicating safety risks across the company. Williams expects every employee to report 
all incidents and near misses related to employee, process or contractor safety. We then compile the results and share them weekly and monthly with the entire company to stimulate continuous improvement. Our goal is to achieve zero recordable injuries, zero lost-time injuries and zero lost workdays.We remain disciplined in our approach to continuously improve safety culture and performance. We set a 
goal to reduce recordable injuries for employees by 
15 percent and our actual performance beat that goal significantly with a reduction of 28 percent. We have 
this same 15 percent reduction goal for 2019.Motor Vehicle SafetyMotor vehicle safety continues to be a focus for 
Williams and the energy industry at large. We 
seek to eliminate preventable motor vehicle safety 
accidents through a combination of equipment 
updates and employee awareness.In 2017, we installed telematics units on all employee fleet vehicles to track, measure and improve driver safety. We collect metrics on acceleration, cornering, speeding and braking, and share the data with employee leaders. We recognize employees who demonstrate safe driving behaviors, as evidenced by the data collected by the telematics units, and honor such employees at company-wide events. As a result 
of these efforts, we reduced our preventable motor vehicle accident rate from 2.34 per million miles driven in 2017 to 1.90 in 2018. We will continue working until we meet our target of zero motor vehicle incidents.Employee Lost-Time Incident Rate & Total Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 Work Hours*1.301.41.21.00.80.60.40.201.091.070.830.810.400.350.260.250.1720182017201620152014 Lost-Time Incident Rate        Total Recordable Incident Rate *Incidents include both injuries and illnesses29Contractor SafetyOur dedication to safety extends to third-party suppliers and contractors. Every day, we work toward zero contractor safety incidents. Williams actively engages with contractors to support a safe work environment. 
We provide site- and project-specific orientation for 
all contractors at the start of each project. For larger projects, we conduct safety leadership workshops 
for contractors and employees to emphasize the importance of superior safety performance.Our standard contract language includes expectations 
for contractor and subcontractor safety qualifications, performance and competency. Contractors are held accountable for satisfying contractual requirements and complying with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards. As part of our commitment to contractor 
safety, we collect and evaluate contractor safety metrics. 
We expect contractors to report all incidents and share lessons learned by completing incident investigations.Williams’ contractor safety management plan helps us pre-screen contractors, ensure compliance with safety guidelines and monitor contractor safety performance. We use ISNetworld’s® nationally recognized contractor safety management system to pre-screen contractors against our safety grading process prior to generating 
a service agreement.Our safety grading process assesses contractors based on key performance areas including total recordable incident rate, number of fatalities, number of citations, drug and alcohol program compliance, and safety management system compliance. Contractors that do not meet our criteria do not work for Williams, unless they improve their formal risk mitigation plan, and prove their ability to comply with our criteria.We also conduct contractor safety audits utilizing a third-party audit company and internal evaluations 
of our contractors to ensure they are meeting both regulatory and contractual requirements. Our environmental, health and safety specialists work with our contractors daily to ensure we maintain a safe and environmentally responsible work environment.Process SafetyWilliams utilizes equipment and implements procedures to prevent the uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons 
and hazardous substances. The Williams Integrated Management System includes a comprehensive set 
of policies and standards to manage process safety, including management of change and pre-startup safety review policies, and process hazard 
analysis requirements.We design and operate our facilities to manage
process safety risks proactively while complying with 
all applicable regulations and industry standards. We follow American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 to track process safety occurrences. We set a goal to reduce process safety incidents by 15 percent in 2018, and we exceeded that goal with 29 Tier 1 process safety incidents. We have the same goal to reduce process safety incidents by 15 percent in 2019. In recent years, we focused on reducing safety system activations and identifying safety critical equipment. 
In 2018, we made improvements to better recognize and report safety system activations, loss of primary containment and other process safety near misses.Williams implemented a robust near-miss reporting program in 2018 to further assess our safety performance and identify areas for improvement. Near-miss identification and reporting provides significant leading indication into hazard recognition and mitigation for employee, contractor and process safety. Emphasizing near-miss reporting and management provides opportunities to investigate, mitigate and share lessons learned before an actual incident occurs. We also shared incident lessons learned across the company, as we always strive to 
do with any serious incident that occurs.Asset & Mechanical IntegrityAsset IntegrityWe operate more than 30,000 miles of pipeline 
across 24 U.S. states and offshore in the Gulf of 
Mexico. Our natural gas transmission, gas gathering 
and liquids pipelines serve utilities, power generators 
and processing plants in three operating areas: 
Atlantic-Gulf, Northeast and West.We develop and maintain integrity management plans 
for our pipeline system to identify actual and potential precursor events that can result in pipeline incidents. The plans also provide a structured approach for evaluating risk and implementing risk-reduction activities such as integrity assessments and other actions to prevent or mitigate the effects of potential incidents. We employ qualified company and third-party personnel to conduct risk management activities.One of the key elements of pipeline integrity is integrity assessments. Williams regularly completes integrity assessments of pipelines and repairs of identified defects. We monitor pipelines for flow, pressure, temperature and other factors through our dedicated control centers, which include automated system response to potential leak conditions. Technologies such as infrared, acoustic and lasers are also used to facilitate leak detection. We train pipeline control specialists to recognize abnormal conditions that could be the result of a pipeline leak 
and how to respond to potential leaks.Williams completes aerial patrols at intervals prescribed by pipeline regulations, and in certain areas of more dense population, the patrols are completed more frequently than required. Williams runs cleaning pigs and uses in-line inspection tools when needed for 
flow assurance and to manage the threat of internal corrosion. We coat all new pipelines with modern coating systems that act as the primary barrier to corrosion. In addition, we apply cathodic protection 
as a second line of defense to prevent corrosion. Annual performance evaluations assess all elements 
of the integrity programs, identify any opportunities 
for improvement and develop action items to track completion of recommended improvements. For more information on building and maintaining safe pipelines, see our commitment to safety webpage.In 2018, S&P Global Platts rated Williams 
#1 in America’s oil and gas storage and transportation as part of its Top 250 Global Energy Company rankings.Williams’ Pipeline Integrity ProgramAerial Inspections 
and PatrolValve Inspections, Leak Surveys and Pipeline Marking24/7 System MonitoringPressure and Temperature SensorsCleaning Pigs Prevent Corrosion100% Weld X-RaySmart Pigs In-Line InspectionsProtective Coating and Pipeline Replacement31Emergency Preparedness 
& Public SafetyEmergency PreparednessPreparing for and appropriately responding to a wide range of emergency situations is critical to the safety of Williams’ workforce and the communities surrounding our operations. Our Williams Integrated Management System includes company-wide requirements for implementing midstream and pipeline emergency response procedures. We require our operating managers to establish site-specific emergency plans 
at our facilities and assets that follow those procedures.Williams provides employees with annual safety 
drills and training to prepare for a wide range of emergencies, including accidental releases and security-related incidents. In the case of an emergency, our trained personnel will arrive at the incident site, notify appropriate emergency response officials 
and resolve the incident as soon as possible. We 
fully investigate the cause of all emergency incidents 
to prevent future occurrences. Our remediation management process establishes a standard method for managing post-emergency response cleanup 
at company sites. We are active, engaged and responsible stewards 
of the communities where we operate. We regularly engage with firefighters, emergency management officials, law enforcement officers, public officials and planning agencies to review emergency response procedures and conduct annual emergency response drills. We also provide instructor-led training courses and web-based training programs to emergency responders through our online portal. Williams requires emergency responders to be included in relevant training exercises and drills at least every three years.We conduct outreach efforts with emergency responders, including in-person meetings, facility tours and informational mailers. In 2018, Williams sent more than 19,000 public awareness mailers to emergency response agencies. We also provide an electronic newsletter 
to emergency responders who have participated in Williams’ online training program. The newsletter includes relevant information related to our operations and best practices in emergency response.Williams cares about the communities where we live and work. We provide regular financial contributions 
to support local emergency response teams. We also make charitable investments to communities affected by natural disasters. In 2018, we supported disaster relief efforts in Oklahoma, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Colorado and Pennsylvania. Additionally, our disaster relief program provides short-term assistance to employees experiencing severe financial need due 
to a disaster. For more information on community giving, see page 38.Public SafetyWilliams has ongoing procedures in place to proactively address public safety. These processes integrate 
best practices from the Common Ground Alliance, a 
member-driven association committed to preventing damage to underground infrastructure. One of the greatest single challenges to safe pipeline operations is the accidental damage caused by excavation, construction, farming activities and homeowner maintenance.Education and engagement with local stakeholders 
help us prevent potential safety incidents and reduce third-party damage to pipelines. Individuals can 
always contact our 24-hour control centers to report 
an emergency or abnormal conditions at our pipelines and facilities.In 2018, we created a public awareness steering committee to help communicate and implement our public awareness initiatives. We have designed our public awareness programs to enhance safety by increasing knowledge of pipeline locations and safety prevention measures.Each year, we send a public awareness mailer to 
the public in areas where we operate detailing the importance of calling “811” at least three days before the start of any digging project. We also send a mailer to farming and ranching communities within 10 miles of our pipelines. In 2018, we implemented a damage prevention toolkit to equip field personnel with resources for identifying and preventing line strikes and near misses. Williams works with a third-party vendor every four 
years to conduct a robust phone survey across our operating footprint. The survey results shed light on 
the public perception of Williams and provide insight into opportunities to communicate safety messages more effectively to the affected public, as well as to emergency officials, public officials and excavators.Mechanical IntegrityWilliams operates gathering and processing facilities across the continental United States. Our goal is to operate our pipeline systems and facilities with no adverse effects on employees, the environment, 
the public or our customers. We manage facility integrity through company-wide standards that align with applicable Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Pipeline Hazardous Material Safety Administration requirements. Our mechanical integrity requirements and guidelines are captured in the Williams Integrated Management System and outline company expectations for 
managing mechanical integrity quality assurance, 
data management and midstream inspections.We conduct assessments and visual inspections on an interval-based schedule that employs a corrosion-based analytical process including special emphasis assessments at identified industry high-risk areas to ensure continuous monitoring of facilities. When new equipment is installed, a baseline inspection test is performed prior to, or within three months after, startup to assess mechanical integrity. We compile all historical design, inspection and testing information into one database for accurate inspection and data analysis. Through this process, we are able to determine low 
or poor performing assets that need attention. We 
also implement program maintenance through our 
continuous audit process that assists in annual planning.Supporting the National Petroleum CouncilWilliams served as the vice chair for a National Petroleum Council (NPC) study that examined the resiliency of natural gas and oil infrastructure in the event of a natural disaster. The report provides industry and government with advice to better prepare for significant disruptions to oil and natural gas supply chains caused by natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes and floods. Although the study focuses on emergency scenarios caused by natural disasters, the outcomes from the study will also support best practices for responding to impacts from a broad range of potential incidents and vulnerabilities. To continue this effort, Alan Armstrong, Williams’ president and chief executive officer, is currently leading 
a National Petroleum Council Study on energy infrastructure that was requested by the secretary of energy. Williams is dedicating significant resources to this 18-month effort. The purpose of the study is to determine 
the future need for U.S. oil and gas infrastructure under a broad variety of supply and demand scenarios. Additionally, the study seeks to address factors limiting infrastructure from being constructed in such a way 
that maximizes public access to plentiful, safe and low-cost energy. The study is intended to broaden public understanding of the benefits provided by existing infrastructure and identify the challenges to future infrastructure projects. Finally, the study will highlight the resiliency of our infrastructure today and recommend research and development opportunities that can take our industry to the next level of safety and efficiency.WE MAKE ENERGY HAPPEN™ SPOTLIGHT33Community EngagementCommunity RelationsWilliams enthusiastically accepts our responsibility to be a good neighbor in the communities we serve. We work to sustain productive relationships with the communities where we operate. This requires us to effectively engage a variety of stakeholders, from local business owners and community leaders to public officials and nongovernmental organizations. Our goal is to engage stakeholders throughout the lifecycle of our projects 
and asset operations so that we can listen to feedback and share our perspective. Williams has multiple communication channels to promote dialogue with stakeholders, including digital platforms, in-person meetings, newsletters and 
open houses. Open lines of communication enable stakeholders to share feedback and voice concerns. We capture the feedback we receive, enter it into 
a centralized database and evaluate the feedback 
to better understand the issues and develop appropriate responses. Williams’ public outreach team serves as the central contact point for public outreach efforts related to pipeline projects. The team develops and maintains 
a project-specific public participation plan for major projects. The plans are implemented using our Public Outreach Strategy Guide that formally outlines Williams’ approach to community engagement and consultation. The guide emphasizes the importance of early contact, continual communication and being flexible whenever possible. In 2018, we had hundreds of open houses, community events and public meetings. Williams also employs the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s voluntary pre-filing process to engage impacted stakeholders prior to the submittal of a formal project certificate application. Activities include public meetings and consultations with elected officials, community leaders and impacted landowners. We followed this process for our most recent projects, including Atlantic Sunrise, Dalton, Northeast Supply Enhancement, Hillabee and Virginia Southside.In 2018, the International Association for Public Participation presented Williams with the Project of 
the Year award for the Atlantic Sunrise project, which expands our existing Transco pipeline to markets in 
the Mid-Atlantic and southeastern United States. The award reflects our efforts to engage and collaborate with the public and other stakeholders during the planning phase of the project. Public engagement efforts included a voluntary $2.5 million environmental stewardship program designed to better protect the natural environment and support communities within 
the Atlantic Sunrise project area.Landowner RelationsWilliams operates more than 30,000 miles of pipeline that transverse 24 U.S. states. It is critically important to maintain positive, lasting partnerships with landowners that grant us the privilege of establishing a permanent easement across their land. Without this easement, Williams could not deliver the natural gas supplies on which we all rely. Our goal is to treat landowners fairly through financial compensation, protecting and restoring their land and operating on their property with respect.Williams directly engages with our landowner partners on a regular basis through email, phone calls, open houses and in-person meetings. For existing assets 
on a landowner’s property, we conduct an annual follow-up to ensure our infrastructure is operating safely and unobtrusively. For proposed pipeline projects, we 
apply a standardized approach for engaging potentially impacted landowners early in the process. Our focus 
on early engagement enables us to explain the project, obtain permission to survey the land and conduct a formal negotiation process. During this time, landowners can ask questions, voice concerns and communicate their preferences.Throughout the project planning process, Williams proactively circulates relevant project information to landowners, including company policies, frequently asked questions and steps for acquiring rights-of-way. When engaging with landowners, we abide by 
the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America’s Commitment to Landowners, which outlines the recommended behaviors that member companies agree to follow. We also adhere to applicable state regulations such as the Texas Landowner Bill of Rights. For projects certified by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Williams is required to notify landowners up to half a mile from the proposed pipeline route. We distribute a brochure developed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that describes what to expect 
if a project is proposed on a landowner’s property.We recognize that landowners can have concerns related to our projects and operations, including apprehension related to safety, property value and construction impacts. When planning a pipeline 
project, Williams does its best to minimize the impact 
on communities by locating the pipeline along existing rights-of-way, roadways or other utility corridors. 
Our corporate philosophy is to only introduce eminent domain as a last resort. We try to reroute when possible to avoid property owners who do not want to work 
with us. For projects certified by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, we use a federal eminent domain process. As part of this process, Williams maintains a formal landowner complaint resolution procedure to identify concerns and determine an appropriate resolution in a timely manner.We partner with nearly 85,000 landowners throughout the United States.Indigenous PeoplesOver the past century, we have learned the importance of investing time to understand different cultures, traditions and beliefs. Our goal is to build trust with all stakeholders through open communication and regular dialogue. Williams takes special care when working
with Native American tribes in our areas of operation. We respect the tribal sovereignty of the 573 federally recognized Native American tribes in the United States and seek mutually beneficial outcomes. As an interstate natural gas pipeline company regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, we adhere to Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act. The Act requires consultation on all activities that may impact property of cultural or religious significance to tribes. As part of Section 106, tribes must have a reasonable opportunity to identify concerns about affected properties and to advise Williams on the identification and evaluation of these properties. We continually work to improve our communications with Native American tribes to reach mutual understanding and effective resolutions. As part of our commitment to building a positive relationship with Native American tribes, we make meaningful investments in tribal communities. For example, we contribute to the Shoshone Bannock Tribes and Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation scholarship funds. The scholarship funds help increase access to quality education for Native American youth. For more information on community giving, see page 38.In 2018, we developed a formal Human Rights Policy and Statement that outlines our commitment to respect human rights and avoid complicity in human rights abuses. The Statement includes respecting the rights
of indigenous peoples. In 2018, Williams had no identified incidents of violations involving the rights
of indigenous peoples.35Local Economic DevelopmentWe believe we are responsible for strengthening 
our local communities. Williams supports economic development in the areas where we operate by 
creating jobs, investing in civic improvements and working with local service providers. We identify opportunities to improve local economic development through partnerships with local chambers, economic development groups and public officials.For major infrastructure projects, we work with third-party organizations to determine the total economic impact 
of a project. For example, our Atlantic Sunrise project represents a $3 billion private investment to expand Pennsylvania’s energy infrastructure and spur economic growth in the state. An estimated 8,000 jobs were created as a result of the project, which supports 
$1.6 billion in additional wages, revenues and investments to the regional and state economies. 
The project created $870 million in economic value during the construction period alone. During construction of our Atlantic Sunrise project, we also developed a mobile device program that enabled thousands of local businesses to sign up for our mobile application. The application helped our workforce easily find and procure local goods and services.Williams cultivates positive relationships with organized labor, which provides a skilled, local workforce dedicated to delivering quality work that meets Williams’ high expectations. Organized labor also serves as an important voice advocating for the necessary expansion of domestic energy infrastructure. For the Atlantic Sunrise project in Pennsylvania, Williams selected union contractors for the major pipeline construction spreads, as well as two new compressor stations built for the project. The project was strongly supported by state and local organizations, including the Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry and the Pennsylvania chapter of the National Federation of Independent Business.Williams has a long-standing practice of assessing local talent first for all available job positions. Our efforts 
to hire locally include career fairs, employee referral incentive programs and hiring bonuses in remote areas. 
We also support technical schools, colleges and universities through partnerships and scholarships 
to develop a pool of future candidates. We provide locally hired individuals with opportunities to develop technical and leadership skills that will benefit them throughout their careers. For information on supporting local suppliers, see page 40.Williams provides local infrastructure investments tailored to address community-specific needs. Examples include medical centers, parks, libraries and sports complexes. We continually seek input from local leaders and other economic development entities to better understand the infrastructure needs of local communities. In addition 
to civic infrastructure improvements, Williams brings economic benefits to local governments through taxes. 
In 2018, we spent nearly $158 million in property taxes across our locations. We have contributed nearly $232 million in total Employer Federal Insurance Contribution Act taxes over the past five years.WE MAKE ENERGY HAPPEN™ SPOTLIGHTAtlantic Sunrise ProjectWilliams operates a natural gas transmission pipeline, known as the Transco pipeline, which transports natural 
gas from production areas to utility companies and power plants in the eastern United States. The Atlantic Sunrise expansion project is designed to supply enough natural gas to meet the daily needs of more than 
7 million American homes by connecting producing regions in northeastern Pennsylvania to markets in the Mid-Atlantic and southeastern states. During the planning process for the Atlantic Sunrise project, Williams coordinated with 21 federally and 
nonfederally recognized tribes to determine locations of cultural significance. We also worked closely with the Pennsylvania Historic Museum Commission to conduct extensive fieldwork and data recording to ensure that no eligible prehistoric archaeological deposits were within the project construction footprint. In response to these efforts, we made modifications to the proposed route, project design and construction methodologies to ensure that significant cultural resources remained protected.36WE MAKE ENERGY HAPPEN™ SPOTLIGHTOpportunities for Local TalentWith operations spanning 24 states, more than half of our employees live and work in areas outside our main corporate locations, many in small communities. In numerous areas where we conduct business, we have long-standing partnerships with technical schools and universities, offering internships, scholarships and outreach opportunities to develop a pool of future candidates.For example, Williams was instrumental in developing the Petroleum Natural Gas program at Lackawanna College 
in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Previously, the programming had primarily focused on the upstream exploration and production business. Williams helped shift the focus to be more inclusive of courses related to the midstream sector, allowing students to better prepare for broader opportunities. Additionally, we partner closely with identified technical schools to assist in developing programming related to skills gaps in our industry.To sustain our business, we need talented individuals to fill the well-paying jobs in our field locations. As one of the larger employers in many of these smaller communities, we are pleased to offer job opportunities to local talent to allow them to stay and prosper in the communities they call home.37Community GivingFor more than a century, Williams has strengthened the communities where we operate. Following the footsteps of the Williams family legacy, we continue to be active, involved and passionate community leaders. We center our community giving strategy on energizing and engaging employees while growing targeted skills, strengthening communities where we do business and increasing the odds of successful business execution. 
In 2018, we contributed $9.4 million to nearly 2,000 organizations through our channels for community giving. Community Giving by Program AreaTotal: $9,488,361	United Way Corporate Match Program	Civic & Community	Matching Gifts Program	Education	Homegrown Giving Program	Safety	Health & Human Services	In-Kind Donations	Political Action Committee Match Program	Arts & Humanities	Environment$2,253,074$2,119,825$1,634,744$1,177,717$610,341$581,825$515,914$170,340$147,081$150,500$127,000“I love it when businesses and their employees step 
up to the plate for their communities. Williams 
is one of United Way’s best partners, fighting to make sure our future workforce is prepared for the jobs 
of tomorrow and creating greater opportunity for all. On behalf of the more than 160 United Ways that receive the generosity of Williams employees and the communities they support, thank you for your commitment and generosity.”BRIAN A. GALLAGHER, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF UNITED WAY WORLDWIDEWilliams FoundationIn 1974, we established the Williams Foundation to help guide our community giving. The Foundation is overseen by a thoughtful and engaged board that encourages volunteerism, community giving and board membership for nonprofit organizations across the country. The Williams Foundation board collaborates with executive leaders and our community relations team to develop 
and approve budgets for supporting specific charitable programs in the communities where our employees live and work. We developed the Williams Foundation bylaws and charitable contributions standard to outline our giving process and ensure the integrity of our contributions.Charitable GivingOne of our long-standing missions is to be an 
exceptional neighbor in the communities where employees live and our businesses operate. To 
support that mission, we established several methods 
of charitable giving at Williams. Our charitable giving initiatives make a difference through investments in 
the environment, education and arts to organizations 
that support basic human needs, such as United Way. Williams’ operating area leaders are responsible for helping identify meaningful local community investments.A key element of charitable giving at Williams is support for education. We know our ability to build high-quality and reliable energy infrastructure requires a talented workforce with skills in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). Throughout the country, we are committed to helping our local schools prepare the 
next generation of employees in STEM fields. In 2018, we contributed approximately $750,000 to STEM education. For example, Williams is a member of the STEM Funders Network, a diverse mix of more than 
20 education-focused private and corporate foundations that work together to increase the knowledge and expertise of grant makers investing in STEM. We support STEM ecosystems in Tulsa and Pittsburgh, which provide the architecture for cross-sector 
learning. STEM ecosystems were identified as the 
top strategy for improving STEM literacy by the U.S. National Science and Technology Council in 2018.Employee ParticipationOur employees embrace Williams’ culture of giving in 
a big way. Across the country, our employees serve on nonprofit boards and as mentors, coaches, committee members and volunteer firefighters. To help employees maximize their contributions to local communities, we established employee-driven charitable giving programs, including our homegrown giving and matching gifts programs. Our homegrown giving program enables employees to support the unique needs of their local communities through grants designed to support eligible, nonprofit organizations where Williams’ employees are involved. We also established the Williams matching 
gifts program that annually matches contributions to eligible organizations up to $10,000 per employee or board member and up to $5,000 per retiree.Williams supports volunteer efforts by granting employees time off to volunteer with charitable organizations. In 2018, Williams’ employees volunteered 17,545 hours with charitable organizations.Williams supports more than 160 local area United 
Way agencies through our company-wide efforts. As one of 125 Global Corporate Leadership companies, our partnership with United Way is one of many ways we take a leadership role in driving sustainable change through collaboration with strong community partners. 2018 marked the 29th consecutive year that we raised more than $1 million for the Tulsa Area United Way. 
We are proud to be tightly woven into the fabric of communities across the United States through our partnership with United Way.WE MAKE ENERGY HAPPEN™ SPOTLIGHTTulsa’s Gathering PlaceWilliams was the largest corporate funder of Gathering Place, a privately funded, public park along the Arkansas River in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Recently named the best new attraction in the country by USA Today, Gathering 
Place is an inclusive space to host events, dine at restaurants and participate in community activities. Williams pledged $16 million over 10 years to support the development of Tulsa’s Gathering Place. In September 2018, the $465 million park opened to the public. Known as A Park for Everyone, Gathering Place serves as a vibrant community center and helps bolster local economic development.39Workforce Health & DevelopmentEmployee Health & WellnessWilliams cares about the well-being of our employees. We offer comprehensive programs and services to support the health of employees during and after 
work, including robust medical plan benefits, disease management programs and weight-loss coaching. These benefits are available to most employees regardless of location.As part of our commitment to employees, Williams offers a Williams Way to Wellness Program as a component 
of our employee total rewards package. The program 
is available to employees and eligible spouses and domestic partners. As part of the program, we provide annual biometric health screenings and well-being assessments to employees with a focus on assessing overall health and early identification of any possible medical risks. In 2018, 56 percent of registered employees completed health screenings, which resulted in discounts and incentives on healthcare benefits.
The program also includes challenges throughout the year related to a variety of health topics, from physical activity and healthy eating to financial planning.We are dedicated to continuously improving the health and wellness of Williams’ employees. We evaluate participation and engagement in existing programs 
to determine design enhancements and inform communications efforts. We integrate our employee health and wellness program and communication activities with our employee safety efforts to leverage the natural synergies that exist between employee health and safety. For information about personnel safety, see page 28.Employee Attraction & RetentionWilliams employs more than 5,000 people across 
24 states. Our employees identify opportunities to reshape the future of energy and safely deliver the nation’s supply of natural gas. We work to attract and retain the best talent by providing an environment where employees feel fulfilled and supported in their personal and professional development. Our efforts enabled Williams to maintain an industry-low voluntary turnover rate of 6.1 percent in 2018.In 2018, we conducted an employee engagement survey to identify Williams’ strengths and weaknesses from our employees’ perspectives. More than 82 percent of employees participated in the survey. 
We continue to seek opportunities to improve how 
we engage employees. As we grow our company, we remain focused on creating a safe, inclusive workplace where employees feel valued and career development 
is encouraged.Talent Recruitment We leverage various recruiting strategies to hire candidates that align with our business needs. Our primary recruitment platforms include external job boards and our Williams Careers site. We offer a talent scout incentive program to enhance and broaden Williams’ candidate pool through employee referrals. We also partner with universities and technical schools to recruit for entry-level opportunities and paid internships. Our internships provide meaningful work and resources to help interns prepare for entry-level needs in specific disciplines.We know the military offers exceptional experience and rigorous technical training, and we value veterans. We strategically recruit military veterans through virtual career fairs, targeted social media campaigns, virtual information sessions and direct partnerships. In 2018, veteran employees made up 7 percent of the Williams workforce, and 8 percent of management roles were held by veteran employees.When hiring for a position, we also look internally to identify potential candidates. Williams’ internal human resources system allows employees to view and apply to all currently posted requisitions. We fill approximately 
30 percent of all open positions internally.Employee Benefits Our employees are our greatest asset and we want to offer them a leading benefits package. Williams offers 
a comprehensive total rewards program that includes base salary, an all-employee annual incentive plan, comprehensive retirement benefits and a health and wellness program. Our benefits program exceeds the benchmarks for both our segment of the industry and the energy industry as a whole. Employees receive company-paid retirement benefits regardless of their personal decision to save in our 401(k) plan or not.We want to recognize and reward our employees 
who play a critical role in our company’s success. Williams’ discretionary annual incentive program is an important component of our total rewards offering to all employees. This program uses enterprise-wide business performance, safety metrics and individual performance to drive business results, enhance collaboration and motivate employees.We believe that by having a stake in the success of the company, employees will find more opportunities to make Williams stronger. To that end, Williams provides an employee stock purchase plan to purchase company stock at a 15 percent discount. As of 2018, 46 percent of employees elected to participate in the program.Supply Chain ManagementWilliams works with more than 3,000 suppliers across 
the United States to procure the materials, goods 
and services needed to support our operations. 
The conduct of our suppliers directly impacts our operational success. We develop relationships with suppliers that share our commitment to operational discipline and uphold our Core Values and Beliefs. Williams’ standard contractor language outlines our supplier expectations. We 
require suppliers to have their own policies and procedures that meet Williams’ environmental, health and safety requirements. We also audit our suppliers’ 
environmental, health and safety programs.When surveying the market for potential suppliers, we use ISNetworld to procure qualified organizations that meet our safety, compliance and credit requirements. For existing suppliers, Williams uses a supplier relationship management process to segment suppliers and develop an appropriate management approach. Through the supplier relationship management process, we can identify Tier 1 suppliers with the highest spending, strategic value and potential risks. Tier 1 suppliers represent the top 80 percent of total spending.We evaluate our Tier 1 suppliers twice a year to ensure compliance with company policies and regulatory requirements. In 2018, Williams conducted four Tier 1 supplier evaluations. Suppliers not meeting our expectations may be subject to contractual remedies, including termination.Our ability to hire locally depends on the availability of appropriately qualified individuals. We make efforts to hire local suppliers to promote economic development in our areas of operation. Additionally, we support suppliers from historically underrepresented groups including women and minorities. In 2018, we began implementing an enterprise resource planning system that will enhance our process for identifying and partnering with diverse suppliers.On average, 1 in 14 of our employees 
is a military veteran.Employee DevelopmentOur employees drive our strategic and operational business results. We develop a knowledgeable and skilled workforce through robust training programs 
and strong employee engagement. Our goal is to develop the very best talent in the energy industry.Williams offers corporate and technical training programs that support professional development. Additional training is provided based on the position, regulatory environment and specific employee needs. On average, Williams’ employees completed 31 hours of corporate and technical training in 2018. We continually look for opportunities to improve our training programs. In 2018, we enhanced our frontline operations training programs with supplemental instructor-led courses, web-based courses and targeted on-the-job training to enrich specific technical skills.We encourage employees to engage in open dialogue regarding their professional development through one-on-one meetings with supervisors and during 
formal performance reviews. One hundred percent of employees received a performance assessment in 2018. One of the unique aspects of the Williams talent development process is the right result, right way matrix, a two-dimensional approach to performance assessment that takes into consideration what employees accomplish and how they pursue those accomplishments.Williams provides development opportunities for all employees, from recent graduates to senior leadership. Our Early Career Professional Development Program enables post-graduate employees to participate in an intensive three-year rotational or non-rotational program to build technical expertise. Williams’ Talent Pipeline Leadership Development Program is intended to develop future leaders. Eligible employees who exhibit high potential for senior roles within seven to 10 years are selected to participate in the program to accelerate career development. And, our Frontline Supervisor Essentials and Leading for Results programs help support current leaders in their development by providing tools and training resources to promote success in their roles.We strive to make sure that we have the right people 
in the right roles at the right time. Williams engages 
in talent review and succession planning to assess 
our organizational capability and ensure ongoing 
talent capacity.Our talent management processes enable us to evaluate talent across the company, calibrate accordingly and provide the opportunity for leaders to think strategically about the broader spectrum of development needs and themes. Aligning these themes to the strategic priorities of the organization helps ensure that succession and development plans support the growth of individuals and the business. As part of our succession analysis, we look at the demographics of our potential successor pool. The table below shows a breakdown of Williams’ employees by age group in 2018.In 2018, we spent $3.5 
million on training for employees.Percent of Employees by Age Group	Under 30 Years Old	30–50 Years Old	Over 50 Years Old11%Total: 5,33753%36%“Diversity and inclusion at Williams is about more than numbers 
on a page—inclusion is the foundation of how we build a highly 
engaged and innovative workforce. When employees feel connected 
and accepted, they do their best work. Our commitment to building 
an inclusive workforce enables us to meet evolving workforce demands and is 
paramount to business success.”SHAGAH ZAKERION, SENIOR DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION CONSULTANTDiversity & InclusionIn alignment with our Core Values and Beliefs, we 
want all employees to be respected and valued for 
their contributions and encouraged to achieve their 
full potential. Our philosophy is that each employee contributes to building an inclusive culture. Through education and leadership accountability, we embed diversity and inclusion in every part of our organization.Williams has several policies that reinforce our commitment to an inclusive workplace. Our Code of Business Conduct includes expectations related to 
our work environment, including guidelines to prevent workplace harassment. Williams’ Equal Employment Opportunity Policy guides our approach to providing equal employment and advancement opportunities for all. Our Prohibiting Workplace Discrimination and Harassment Policy defines our requirements for creating a workplace free of discrimination and harassment. We provide ongoing diversity and inclusion training, including integration into all leadership development programs.Williams considers diverse perspectives and backgrounds as a competitive advantage in the marketplace. We continue to focus on growth and collaboration by striving for diverse representation 
at all levels through our talent management practices 
and employee development. Williams works to cast 
a wide net of potential employees to ensure we are considering all qualified applicants. We recruit diverse talent through digital platforms and direct outreach. 
We also partner with universities and technical schools to support the education of diverse students. In 2018, women and ethnically diverse employees represented 51 percent of our engineering, business and information technology internship participants.Our Early Career Professional Development Program provides opportunities for high-performing and 
high-potential college graduates to obtain full-time, entry-level positions at Williams. The program is designed to accelerate development and engagement through robust work assignments, technical training, individual development planning and mentoring. The program consistently achieves strong representation across diversity dimensions, helping build a robust pipeline of future talent.We are committed to helping all employees elevate into leadership positions in our company by creating a more equitable playing field. Through strategic partnerships with organizations such as Catalyst and Women’s Energy Network, we are accelerating leadership development and expanding business and operational knowledge critical to leader success. In 2018, women and ethnically diverse employees represented 27 percent of management roles at Williams.We have three active business resource groups 
at Williams to support networking and professional development opportunities for veterans, women and LGBTQ employees. The business resource groups 
also help expand our network of diverse individuals outside of Williams.