WE MAKE CLEAN ENERGY HAPPEN® Minimizing Our FootprintAt Williams, we take care to preserve the 
environment for future generations while improving today’s standards of living by delivering natural gas products that reliably fuel the clean energy economy. Our commitment to reduce emissions, safeguard biodiversity and responsibly manage critical natural resources requires that we incorporate environmental considerations into our decision-making process 
at all stages of our operations. We have processes 
in place to mitigate environmental risk across our operations and we strive to meet or exceed applicable laws and regulations.Solar panel at a measurement site near 
the Dallas Fort Worth International Airport.Environmental 
ComplianceWe aim to serve as responsible stewards of the environment while recognizing that the assets we operate and the products we 
deliver can affect people and the environment. Our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy outlines 
our commitment to protect 
the environment and integrate environmental considerations 
into our core business activities. Every employee and contractor 
is responsible for adhering to this policy. Williams’ environmental, health and safety board of 
directors committee oversees 
our company-wide culture of environmental protection, as 
outlined in our Environmental, 
Health and Safety Policy.The Williams Integrated Management System is how we put our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy into action. This management system serves as our company-wide platform for providing requirements, guidelines, procedures, standards and specifications to manage and reduce operational and environmental risk. Our employees use Williams Integrated Management System every day to conduct critical work, ensure compliance with regulations and mitigate impacts to the environment. Changing regulatory requirements and our steadfast commitment to continuous improvement drive proactive updates to the system.Upholding compliance with local, state and federal regulations while protecting the environment is critical to maintaining operational excellence, protecting our license to operate 
and delivering value to our shareholders. We are committed to meeting or exceeding all applicable environmental laws and regulations. As part of our recently updated compliance tracking system, 
we assign and track tasks to 
monitor completion of recurring environmental compliance responsibilities. Reminders associated with each task go out to relevant employees ahead of due dates to minimize risks of noncompliance. 
To reinforce the importance of maintaining company compliance, Williams continues to reward 
front-line employees for timely completion of required tasks through the quarterly bonus incentive. In 2020, Williams received 21 environmental-related notices 
of noncompliance. We strive 
to reduce this number to zero. 
We set a goal to reduce notices 
of noncompliance by 10% in 2020.Our Environmental Assessment Program (EAP) establishes a 
risk-based evaluation process to systematically assess Williams’ compliance with federal, state and local environmental regulations and with Williams Integrated Management System requirements. We apply 
this environmental management 
plan at all stages of a project, 
from land acquisition, development 
and construction, through to decommissioning and restoration. The EAP teams consist of internal and third-party environmental 
and audit professionals working collaboratively with operations across the company to identify potential issues and evaluate environmental performance trends.By identifying opportunities for improvement, the program evaluates the effectiveness of our existing environmental programs and procedures. In 2020, we integrated an EAP document into the Williams Integrated Management System structure to communicate specific responsibilities and participation requirements at all levels necessary to accomplish each environmental assessment. The EAP demonstrates leadership’s commitment to assuring environmental compliance through evaluating sites on a periodic basis.In 2020, we expanded the EAP to evaluate construction projects of various complexities in an effort to continually improve it, further reduce environmental compliance risk and help improve in-field performance. 
We conducted two pilot projects to evaluate our expanded focus. In 2020, we assessed four gas plants, one liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant, one storage facility and two compressor stations through the EAP. Based on lessons learned, four construction projects are scheduled for evaluation in 2021 and we plan to add the construction evaluation process to the EAP Williams Integrated Management System requirement.53% reduction in environmental-related notices of noncompliance since 2017.McPherson Valley wetlands in McPherson, Kansas.Catoosa High School students releasing fingerling trout into the Lower Illinois River 
as part of Trout Unlimited’s Trout in the Classroom program, sponsored by Williams.Operational GreenhouseGas EmissionsWilliams aims to serve as a responsible steward of the environment. We recognize that 
the assets we operate and the products we deliver can affect people and the environment. 
As one of the largest midstream natural gas operators in the 
country, we have the difficult task 
of balancing evolving customer demand and existing technology constraints with concerns about climate change. By increasing 
the efficiency of our operations, leveraging low carbon energy and implementing emissions reduction technologies, Williams is actively working to minimize our operational Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions. Transparent ReportingSASB EM-MD-110a.1; GRI 102-56Accurately tracking greenhouse 
gas emissions with measurable data enables us to effectively communicate our performance to our stakeholders and identify opportunities to reduce operational emissions. Our Williams Integrated Management System includes requirements for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions and complying with federal and state reporting requirements. We prepare and submit an annual greenhouse gas emissions inventory to the 
U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) for our midstream gathering, processing and interstate transmission and storage operations. 
We also track and report Scope 1 
and Scope 2 emissions data in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.Our subject matter experts and engineering groups work directly 
with environmental specialists and operations personnel to use this 
data to develop and implement initiatives to mitigate greenhouse 
gas emissions. In 2020, we made improvements to our greenhouse 
gas emissions dashboard to show emissions for each Williams compressor station, processing 
plant and fractionator, regardless 
of minimum regulatory required reporting thresholds. This level of detail enabled our environmental specialists to more effectively evaluate and develop emissions reduction opportunities and strategies specific to the facilities they manage. Williams engaged ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) to provide third-party verification of our 2020 greenhouse gas emissions. ERM CVS provided assurance that the adjacent greenhouse gas data was fairly presented in all material respects with reporting criteria: 
total 2020 absolute Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions, total 2020 location-based Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions, 
and total 2020 Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions. See 
page 124 for our full Assurance Letter.Greenhouse Gas Emissions Target SASB EM-MD-110a.2In 2020, Williams set a near-term goal of 56% absolute reduction 
from 2005 levels in company-wide greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, which puts us on a trajectory to be net zero carbon emissions by 2050. To meet our near-term goal for 2030, Williams will leverage our natural gas-focused strategy and technology that is available today to reduce emissions, scale renewables and build a clean energy economy. 
We will do so while looking forward and anticipating innovations 
for the future like hydrogen and carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) that will ultimately contribute to our aspiration to be 
net zero by 2050.To reach our 2030 target, Williams is utilizing technology readily available today such as pursuing methane emissions reduction opportunities through leak detection and repair (LDAR), work practice improvements and evaluating equipment upgrades on a site-specific basis. This 
near-term phase also includes employing innovative emissions reduction strategies through research organizations and trade groups. Williams is also investing in solar power generation to support the power needs of specific natural gas transmission and processing operations sites. 
Our 2030 target shows a commitment by Williams to executing on opportunities in the here and now and in a timeframe that holds our leadership accountable.Voluntary LDAR, blowdown minimization and evaluation of opportunities to cost-effectively reduce methane emitting equipment are expected to collectively contribute up to 20% of the total reductions necessary to achieve our net zero goal. For more information, see our website.Scope 1 and Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions (million metric tons CO2e)1412.6711.9411.89121.551.151.50108611.1310.7410.43420202020182019Scope 2Scope 1It is one thing to talk about creating a cleaner future—it’s another to act on it. Williams was 
the first North American midstream company to establish a climate commitment, and we are leading the way for stakeholders to hold us accountable.Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction SASB EM-MD-110a.2Our operational greenhouse gas emissions occur at Williams assets 
in the gathering and boosting, natural gas processing and transmission and storage sectors. These assets primarily include intrastate gathering and interstate transmission pipelines, compressor stations, natural gas processing plants and LNG and underground storage facilities.Our desire to reduce operational greenhouse gas emissions includes operating our assets efficiently through preventive maintenance; conducting LDAR assessments; implementing recompression measures and installing emissions reduction equipment such as electric motors, compressor vent gas reduction systems and low or no emission control devices. For information on reducing indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the use of our products, see page 24.Williams has been a member of the U.S. EPA Natural Gas STAR program since its inception in 1993. Natural Gas STAR is a voluntary partnership that encourages oil and natural gas companies to adopt cost-effective technologies and practices that improve operational efficiency 
and reduce methane emissions. From 1993 to 2020, Williams avoided almost 5 million metric tons of CO2e by implementing industry best practices and partnering with the Natural Gas STAR program, the equivalent to taking over 1 million cars off the road.We pay particular attention to reducing methane emissions, 
which make up an estimated 11% 
of our assets’ Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions profile. We successfully implement recompression measures to lower 
gas line pressure before pipeline maintenance to reduce methane emissions and make more natural 
gas available for sale. In 2020, Williams reported 57 separate blowdown events along our Transco and Northwest Pipelines where natural gas was recompressed instead of being vented. This accounted for 1.5 billion cubic feet 
of gas saved in 2020 that would have otherwise been released into the atmosphere, the equivalent of heating more than 37,000 homes for a year.Williams is in the process of implementing a blowdown 
emissions reduction standard 
for transmission pipeline assets 
that requires recompression 
or other reduction measures to 
be evaluated for all blowdown events. We will fully integrate 
this requirement into the Williams Integrated Management System 
in late 2021.As an example of reducing blowdowns in 2020, Williams identified a leaking valve at our Dunbar compressor station in New York that needed to be replaced. Replacing the valve using traditional methods would have resulted in 
a planned venting, or blowdown, 
of natural gas. Members from our operations and engineering teams put a plan into action to utilize the station’s compressor to draw down or decrease pipeline pressure and gas volume to significantly reduce the release of natural gas while keeping all safety systems intact. 
A total of 1.3 million standard cubic feet of gas was recompressed downstream of the station that would have otherwise been vented to the atmosphere. That is equivalent to one and a half blowdowns of the entire Dunbar compressor station.Addressing Methane LeaksTo fully realize the potential 
climate benefits of abundant, affordable natural gas as a lower carbon-intensive fuel, technologies and policies must be put in place 
to minimize methane leaks from natural gas production, gathering and processing, transmission and distribution and LNG shipping. Williams is a signatory of the Interstate Natural Gas Association 
of America’s Methane Emissions Commitment to implement methane reduction activities and perform 
leak surveys at all transmission 
and storage compressor stations 
by 2022.Williams uses infrared cameras 
to identify and repair leaking equipment. We conduct quarterly, semiannual or annual LDAR 
surveys on Williams’ compressor stations and facilities using an 
optical gas imaging (OGI) camera. 
Leak survey and repair data from 2020 clearly indicates that Williams’ LDAR surveys are an effective work practice in significantly reducing emissions of fugitive methane to 
the environment. Williams recently started using a single software platform, Leak Tracker Pro™ (LTP), to maintain leak records from OGI surveys conducted in the Williams gathering and boosting and transmission sectors. Use of LTP allows for improved surveys, record keeping and a more in-depth look 
at trends. We used the LTP results 
in 2020 to more accurately identify leaking equipment components 
such as valves, connectors, flanges, pumps and open-ended lines. 
We will analyze this information 
to reduce the number of leaks at Williams’ facilities going forward, which will also help us achieve 
our emissions reduction targets.Williams is in the process 
of developing a Williams 
Integrated Management System requirement with associated roles and responsibilities for LDAR. 
Once finalized, we will use these documents to clearly communicate the roles and responsibilities of Williams’ employees to promote an efficient and effective LDAR program across the enterprise.Scaling Solar EnergyIn 2020, Williams established a 
team dedicated to developing solar generation opportunities across the company asset footprint. The solar projects are intended to provide electricity to our existing natural 
gas compression and processing facilities. In 2020, Williams’ facilities used 3.421 million MWh of electricity to power our operations, and we expect approximately similar usage in future years. The 16 projects currently under commercial development across the Williams operational footprint would offset approximately 16% of the historical annual electric demand. Solar projects are currently under development in Alabama, Colorado, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania 
and Virginia; the solar facilities will 
be located either on land currently owned or on land adjacent to our facilities. We expect the first of the solar projects to begin commercial operation in mid-2023.Since 2012, we have reduced our reported methane emissions from natural gas processing plants and transmission compressor stations more than 58%. Over the same period, the natural gas throughput at these facilities increased by 27%.Operations Technician Zachary C. at the Transco compressor station in Virginia.86% average reduction in pipeline blowdown greenhouse gas emissions when using recompression technology.Industry CollaborationGRI 102-12We are proud to be taking a leading stance on critical topics within 
our industry. As a member of the Interstate Natural Gas Association 
of America (INGAA) board, we helped the organization set a goal 
for the industry to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions from natural gas transmission and storage by 2050. Other commitments include providing consistent and transparent data, measurement and reporting 
of greenhouse gas emissions from operations and reducing the carbon intensity of natural gas infrastructure with innovative technologies like carbon capture and renewable natural gas.To further promote transparency 
and standardization of performance data material to our industry, Williams’ chief executive officer 
sits on the board of directors of the Energy Infrastructure Council and 
co-chaired the development of the midstream environmental, social 
and governance reporting template. 
This important development will allow all midstream energy infrastructure companies to coalesce and present the sustainability metrics that matter most to investors in a transparent and comparable way.The American Petroleum Institute Environmental Partnership provides 
a forum for participants to share information and analyze best practices and technological breakthroughs aimed at responsibly developing natural gas and oil resources. 
The partnership represents a growing coalition of U.S.-based production, processing and transmission companies responsible for meeting the nation’s growing demand for low-cost energy. 
As a member of the partnership, Williams is committed to improving environmental performance 
by accelerating methane 
emissions reductions from 
key emissions sources.In addition, Williams continues to support Colorado State University’s Methane Emissions Technology Evaluation Center and fund methane emissions reduction projects at Pipeline Research Council International. The Center provides a platform for researchers to test and develop new, innovative technology to measure methane emissions. 
The Center also connects researchers with industry partners to facilitate energy technology development, 
and prepares students for careers 
in energy and clean technology.Williams is also a member company of the Gas Machinery Research Council (GMRC) and sits on the GMRC board. Alongside other 
natural gas companies, we support the continual improvement of technological advancements through research initiatives and collaborations. As part of our membership, Williams is an active member of the GMRC project supervisory committee that leads research projects aimed at cutting greenhouse gas emissions, improving compression efficiency 
and reducing lube oil consumption 
at member facilities.To further drive industry research, Williams is a member of the Pipeline Research Council International (PRCI) compressor and pump 
station technical committee. PRCI’s program is focused on technology development to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in all aspects of our industry—from combustion emissions to fugitives. 
This research will support long-term minimization of operating and 
capital costs of compression and pump service, while complying 
with environmental regulation.In 2020, Williams also joined Greentown Labs Houston, the 
city’s first clean energy-focused startup incubator. Williams is the 
first midstream corporate partner 
to support clean technology entrepreneurship through 
Greentown Labs. The incubator 
will provide resources for up to 
50 startup companies focused on emerging technologies and helps position Houston as a leader in 
the clean energy transition.WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTONE Future MembershipWilliams Has Already Achieved the 
2025 ONE Future Industry GoalsWilliams is a member of Our Nation’s Energy Future Coalition, Inc. (ONE Future), a group of companies voluntarily working to reduce methane emissions by identifying policy and technical solutions that better manage emissions associated with production, processing, transmission and distribution. 
Williams’ employees actively serve on the ONE Future technical committee, communications committee and board of directors to advance its mission. ONE Future members set a goal to reduce collective methane emissions in their supply chains to 1% or less by 2025. Williams has committed to the ONE Future 2025 methane intensity goals for industry sectors of 0.08% for gathering and boosting, 0.11% for processing and 0.30% for transmission and storage. In 2019, the 32 ONE Future member companies achieved a methane intensity of 0.334%, beating the coalition’s 1% goal by 67%. Williams continues to exceed anticipated progress toward the ONE Future greenhouse gas reduction goal.ONE Future Methane Emissions 
2025 Target (Percent)*0.1100.300Gathering & BoostingProcessingTransmission & Storage0.0802020 Williams Methane Emissions Performance (Percent)*0.027Gathering & BoostingProcessingTransmission & Storage*	The methane emissions intensity is by Williams segment, and is calculated in accordance 0.018with the ONE Future methodology. Units are mass of methane emitted per mass of methane throughput. Intensity is based on company-specific methane throughput and is not adjusted 0.022to gross production.Contract Analyst Ambar M. and Engineer Pablo L. in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Air EmissionsSASB EM-MD-120a.1; GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 305-7As responsible stewards of the environment, we closely monitor the air emissions—including nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, carbon monoxide, sulfur oxides and particulate matter—associated with our operations. We recognize our responsibility to control air emissions to minimize environmental risks and human health impacts. Williams actively mitigates air emissions from our facilities by maximizing operational efficiency, implementing operational best practices and confirming compliance with local, regional 
and federal laws and regulations. The greatest amount of operational air emissions occurs during the transmission and storage phase, followed by gathering and 
boosting, and then processing. Our air quality management procedure within the Williams Integrated Management System includes required processes for tracking and submitting air quality data to maintain compliance with applicable regulations and permits. We also follow a standard approach for asset construction, operation 
and maintenance to minimize air emissions. Through the Williams EAP, we conduct internal audits 
of air emissions compliance. We calculate and report our 
facilities’ annual criteria air pollutant emissions to the applicable regulatory agencies in accordance with permit requirements. We 
provide air quality permit training 
for employees who maintain our 
facilities and support capital projects. By tracking air releases from our operations, we evaluate 
our performance and identify opportunities for improvement.As part of the 2020 Southeastern Trail project, we became one of 
the first midstream companies to install Selective Catalytic Reduction nitrogen oxides (NO
) emissions control technology on new natural gas-fired turbine compressors. These turbines are already designed with dry low NO
 combustion emissions technology. This control strategy provides the ability to achieve ultra-low NO
 emission Xrates as demonstrated and validated through a continuous emission monitoring system installed on Xeach turbine exhaust stack.Combustion emissions controls Xon each unit are further enhanced using oxidation catalysts to reduce air emissions. Furthermore, the unit compressors are equipped with a vent gas reduction system to minimize methane emissions from blowdowns during scheduled maintenance. These turbine compressors help to transport clean natural gas using a suite of available emissions control technologies that go above and beyond current regulations pertaining to the protection of air quality.We set a goal to reduce all reportable air and spill releases by 10% in 
2020; we surpassed that goal with 
a 33% decrease in air releases. We established a 2021 goal to reduce reportable spills and releases by 
an additional 10% from 2020 levels.To help achieve our goals, we regularly assess opportunities 
to reduce operational emissions. 
For example, we conduct routine equipment maintenance to improve fuel efficiency and perform tests 
on combustion units to confirm equipment is operating properly. 
We use the following technologies 
to further reduce air emissions:

Non-selective catalytic reduction, high-pressure fuel injection 
and pre-combustion chamber technology on legacy reciprocating engines, and selective catalyst reductions on new combustion turbines to further minimize nitrogen oxide emissions.	»Oxidation catalysts on reciprocating engines and turbines to control carbon monoxide, volatile organic compound 
and formaldehyde emissions.	»State-of-the-art compression designs, including turbine compressor startup and shutdown and sitewide emergency shutdown testing using double block valving to minimize blowdown volumes. 
	Compressor vent gas reduction systems when blowing down compressors for maintenance.»	Centrifugal compressor dry »seal vent gas recovery systems and electric starters on existing turbine compressors.We continue to make financial investments to achieve reduced emissions by optimizing system-level efficiency and reliability. For example, in 2020, Williams transitioned our operations in southwest Wyoming 	to low-pressure gathering systems. This transition eliminated the need »for several compressor stations and resulted in reduced greenhouse 
gas emissions and criteria pollutants. As a result of rigorous reliability evaluations, we decommissioned six compressor stations without impact 
to our customers. Williams spent 
$1.3 million to both decommission these stations and make the necessary pipeline modifications. The project will result in $2 million in savings annually and significant emissions reductions, as shown in the table below.Another example of our ongoing efforts to significantly reduce emissions through system optimization is the recently completed Station 
240 liquefaction project in Bergen County, New Jersey. This included 
the elimination of 161 tons per year 
of nitrogen oxide, 47 tons per year 
of carbon monoxide and 16 tons per year of volatile organic compounds. For more information about the cooling process wastewater reduction as 
a result of this project, see 
.

page 53Air Emissions (tons)35,00032,19630,19130,00025,00020,00015,0009,2088,75710,0005,0002,6552,4441,1561,05742542102020201920202020201920192019202020202019Hazardous air pollutantsVolatile organic compoundsNitrogen 
oxidesSulfur 
dioxideParticulate 
matter WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTEmissions 
Reduction ProgramWilliams implements programs to reduce air emissions through modernization 
of equipment. For example, the Emissions Reduction Program (ERP) is a voluntary, multi-year interstate transmission infrastructure investment project that will significantly reduce Transco and Northwest Pipeline compressor station NOX and methane emissions through replacement of legacy natural gas-fired horsepower. Transco is a 9,800-mile, interstate transmission pipeline system extending from south Texas to New York City, and transports approximately 15% of the nation’s natural gas.The ERP consists of a phased retirement of over 180 legacy reciprocating compressor engines and turbines at compressor stations along the transmission systems over a multi-year period. Williams will replace the retired horsepower with a combination of modern, low NOX-emitting natural gas-fired turbines and electric motor-driven compression equipped with compressor vent gas reduction and recovery systems. We are also installing vent gas recovery equipment on all new units. These upgrades are projected to reduce Williams’ system-wide transmission sector NOX emissions by over 75% and compressor methane emissions by approximately 50% from recent levels. For additional information on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, see page 40.Transco compressor station 175 in Virginia.North DeSoto facility in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana.Southwest Wyoming Gathering System EmissionsAir Emissions Total Project Reduction  NOX 91.53 CO 158.63 VOC 55.85 Greenhouse 
 Total Project Reduction  CO2 79,288.00 CH4 54.10 N2O 0.15 CO2e  80,683.00 Biodiversity 
& Land UseAt Williams, we understand that safeguarding biodiversity is directly linked to maintaining sustainable business operations and promoting environmental stewardship. Williams strives to leave a better world for future generations, which is why we protect biodiversity and responsibly retire and remediate our assets through careful planning and management. We also continue to avoid, minimize and mitigate potential impacts on biodiversity and land use during routing, siting and construction.Biodiversity ManagementSASB EM-MD-160a.1; EM-MD-160a.2Williams’ biodiversity practices 
are governed by regulatory and company-driven policies. We 
use a systematic approach to incorporate biodiversity into the planning process of all proposed projects, including extensive research to identify sensitive habitats within a proposed project footprint. As guided by the International Finance Corporation’s performance standards on environmental and social sustainability, we take care 
to safeguard biodiversity. We follow the hierarchy of avoid, minimize and mitigate as required by permitting agencies on infrastructure development projects.To the extent reasonably practicable, we design projects that use existing rights-of-way and avoid areas with high biodiversity.Our environmental assessments incorporate geographic 
information system (GIS) analyses, 
computer-based reviews and 
site surveys to pinpoint sensitive environmental and cultural areas. 
We pay special attention to streams and wetlands; rare, threatened or endangered species; and culturally important sites. Based on the results of our assessments, we implement site-specific management plans that avoid or minimize negative impacts.We develop plans in compliance with all applicable regulations, including those promulgated or enforced by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Fisheries, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.In 2020, 54% of land owned, 
leased and operated by Williams 
was within or near areas of protected conservation status or endangered species habitat, as determined by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN); Ramsar Wetlands of International Importance; United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization World Heritage Sites; and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The table below shows the number of IUCN red-listed species within the counties where Williams operates in 2020.If we cannot avoid sensitive areas 
by rerouting during the design phase, Williams works closely 
with state and federal agencies 
to minimize unavoidable impacts. 
We collaborate with interest groups, biodiversity experts, community organizations and land management agencies to develop appropriate mitigation plans. Common mitigation measures include seasonal restrictions, minimizing construction footprints and implementing specialized construction methods.Williams manages potential offshore impacts in similar fashion to our onshore efforts. We use similar 
care in developing projects to avoid, minimize and mitigate potential impacts to sensitive marine ecosystems and offshore biodiversity.In addition to demonstrating an ongoing commitment to managing biodiversity within our operational footprint, we also conduct projects 
to help improve or preserve wildlife habitat and water resources through local private-public partnerships. For example, our long-term partnership with the Wyoming Game and Fish Department and the WYldlife Fund helps protect land and wildlife in 
our Wyoming areas of operation. 
The WYldlife Fund is a nonprofit 
that advances critical projects to protect Wyoming’s wildlife habitats. As part of our ongoing commitment to environmental stewardship, 
we contributed to a wildlife road crossing that will help both save wildlife and promote driver safety. Land UseSASB EM-MD-160a.3Williams is committed to appropriately retiring and remediating land used for our facilities and pipeline projects. One of our goals is to return land to its original state and create opportunities for beneficial reuse. Williams is committed to reducing 
the risk of landslides, which can potentially affect pipeline integrity and disrupt the environment. In 
the Northeast United States, where terrain is extremely sloped and landslide-susceptible, Williams assesses landslide potential during route development on proposed pipelines following The Nature Conservancy (TNC) guidelines. 
This helps reduce the risk of landslides, slips and erosion from tree-clearing and earthwork during construction, the rest of which will 
be restored in future years.Our internal landslide team evaluates sites that pre-date TNC guidelines and develops site-specific mitigation and restoration plans to prevent landslides. In 2020, we continued to execute on our landslide avoidance and mitigation efforts by monitoring and remediating susceptible sites using field and aerial patrols coupled with annual light detection and ranging surveys. As part of this 
effort, we employ best-in-class technologies such as aerial vehicles. In 2020, we integrated 
post-construction monitoring and restoration activities into our permit tracking tool to better understand the performance of our post-construction restoration efforts. We also piloted 
a restoration program for which 
we hired a restoration professional 
to participate in the construction 
phase of a project with the intention of laying the groundwork for better long-term restoration once construction is complete. Williams’ asset retirement and removal obligation is a planning mechanism that allows us to identify the potential environmental impacts and associated costs of retiring an asset so we can proactively identify suitable solutions. As part of the process, we initiate a property assessment and subsurface investigation prior to any demolition 
or abandonment activity. The findings from the assessments help determine the most appropriate approach for restoring land no longer used as part of our operations.When restoring land, we use native plants that support a diversity of pollinator species to preserve soil 
and water species. Our restoration plans meet state and local regulatory standards, and often include practices that exceed regulatory minimums. For example, we voluntarily implement restoration seed mixes at all new Northeast gathering locations and major projects company-wide to promote both plant and pollinator diversity and help combat global declines in pollinator species. In 2020, Williams disturbed 7,851 acres of terrestrial land across all of Williams owned, leased and operated land, and restored 2,739 acres of terrestrial land during the same reporting period, the rest of which will be restored in future years.2020 International Union for Conservation of Nature 
Red List Species in Williams’ Areas of OperationThreat Level Number Critically endangered 26 Endangered 40 Vulnerable 28 Near threatened 17 Least concern 16 Total 132 This effort and momentum places both DCNR and Williams in a position 
that anticipates a positive outcome by managing the proposed project impacts in feasible ways that strive to avoid, minimize and mitigate, and compensate for associated land use impacts to state forest resources. DAVID MONG, FOREST PROGRAM SPECIALIST, PENNSYLVANIA 
DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION AND NATURAL RESOURCESWILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTSupporting Conservation & Protecting BiodiversityWilliams operates two transmission pipelines that run through the Sproul State Forest and the Tamarack Swamp Natural Area in Pennsylvania. As part of the Leidy South project, this system is expanding to meet increased natural gas demand. In 2020, Williams worked closely with the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources (DCNR) Bureau of Forestry to minimize potential adverse effects and ensure that the project would protect the long-term viability of the area and maintain biological diversity. Over the span of three years, Williams and DCNR identified less impactful alternatives to the original project specifications, including reducing disturbance in sensitive areas. In compliance with DCNR-recommended resource protection and restoration measures, Williams is taking measures such as planting native trees and herbaceous cover, promoting forest growth through specialized restoration techniques and fencing habitats to protect engendered species.Additionally, Williams appropriated funds as part of the Constitution 
Pipeline project to the Conservation Fund for the preservation of upland 
forest and migratory bird habitat. In coordination with the Conservation 
Fund, $524,000 of this fund was donated to the Pennsylvania DCNR for the acquisition of an approximate 530-acre tract expanding the Pinchot State Forest in Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania, to more than 49,635 acres. 
The tract divides the Susquehanna and Lehigh river watersheds, bringing critical protection to both local river watersheds, and supports natural forest restoration for migratory birds and bats.Right-of-way near Moundsville, West Virginia.106active remediation sites managed by Williams’ environmental services team in 2020. Environmental accrual for remediation totaled $33.9 million dollars.Spill PerformanceSASB EM-MD-160a.4; EM-MD-540a.3Williams views sustainability as synonymous with strong business fundamentals. We operate in a manner that protects the environment while delivering on the growing demand for cleaner energy in North America. Williams’ performance record demonstrates that we are committed to preventing operational spills and releases, which can negatively affect the environment and the communities we serve.Our spill prevention, control 
and countermeasure operating requirements within the Williams Integrated Management System include company-wide procedures for preventing spills and mitigating the impacts of potential spills. Specifically, the requirements 
help determine when spill 
plans are needed and how to develop, implement and maintain effective plans.The plans also address compliance with regulatory requirements for pollution prevention at our owned and operated assets. If a spill occurs, we have processes and assets in place to control the 
spill to reduce its impact, report 
to regulatory and community stakeholders, remediate resulting impacts, investigate root causes 
and subsequently improve program management and other controls 
to reduce the risk of future events.As part of our operations, we use tanks to store large quantities of hydrocarbon products such as natural gas liquids. Williams has 
an extensive tank inspection and testing program that adheres to industry standards to prevent 
spills from our tanks. The process provides guidelines for tank inspections conducted by our personnel, as well as third-party certified tank inspectors.Our preventive maintenance plan is also a critical component of Williams’ spill reduction efforts. We use a safety and environmentally critical equipment checklist to designate critical equipment and prioritize preventive maintenance activities accordingly. We took this voluntary step in response to incidents experienced by other companies 
in the midstream sector. We work 
to implement best practices based on our own experiences, as well 
as those of our industry peers. We have data collection initiatives 
in place to investigate, mitigate 
and share lessons learned to reduce the likelihood of a spill. We measure and report a near-miss-to-incident ratio to increase our analysis of spills and identify leading indicators of more severe event occurrences. 
In 2020, we enhanced our focus on the identification of high-potential near-misses to drive awareness of underlying hazards and reduce the number of high-severity incidents.In 2020, Williams had four agency reportable hydrocarbon spills to 
soil and water, equaling 31 barrels 
of hydrocarbons in total. This represents a 33% decrease in reportable spills to soil and water from 2019 levels. We experienced zero accidental releases and 
one non-accidental release from Williams’ Hutch Rail Company 
rail transportation operations. Williams had no reportable hydrocarbon spills in unusually sensitive areas in 2020.When constructing pipelines, Williams occasionally uses 
horizontal directional drilling 
(HDD), a trenchless construction method, to cross environmentally sensitive areas. To evaluate HDD feasibility and implement best practices, Williams employs HDD subject matter experts to oversee 
all aspects of the HDD project lifecycle. Williams also uses 
leading industry best practices 
and standards when evaluating, designing and constructing HDDs 
on pipeline projects. In 2020, 
these efforts led to zero reportable inadvertent drilling fluid releases 
to environmentally sensitive areas during projects where we used the HDD construction method.Maintenance Coordinator Brent L. at Spring Ridge South in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana.WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTImproving Spill PerformanceWe set a loss of primary containment (LOPC) goal in 2020 to encourage 
further improvements in spill performance. This goal made up 5% of our 
annual incentive program for employees, providing an increased focus on activities that help us meet enterprise safety and environmental commitments. Our bonus compensation tied to LOPC reductions drove to an increase in reporting, which allowed us to focus on LOPC releases to determine root causes and prevent future releases across the enterprise. Throughout the 
year, we redefined our definition of LOPC to include pressure-relief devices and ancillary systems, such as engine lube oil and coolant, and provided training to the organization. In 2021, Williams is targeting a 10% reduction in total LOPC events from our 2020 performance. This goal clearly communicates 
our focus on reducing environmental, safety and commercial risk.Station 185 in Virginia.Water StewardshipWhile water consumption is not 
a normal part of our day-to-day operations, we understand this 
is an important topic for several stakeholders, including local communities and nongovernmental organizations. We believe water is a precious resource, and we recognize the importance of effectively managing any amount of water use.Williams protects water resources during construction, operation 
and asset retirement through our environmental inspection and compliance programs. We adhere 
to all applicable environmental laws, regulations and permit conditions related to water. Our internal EAP helps identify corrective actions 
to enhance compliance. Williams also takes into account water resources when developing an 
asset or planning a new pipeline right-of-way. As part of our detailed routing and construction process, 
we thoughtfully review routing options to minimize impacts to 
the environment, including water resources. As part of the process, 
we seek to avoid construction through forested wetlands and sensitive streams.We are able to do this because of 
a relentless focus on preserving water quality by adhering to stringent water quality standards established through federal and state regulations and permitting requirements. That means all the water we use must meet acceptable standards before returning it to the ground or surface. The majority of our water is for hydrostatic testing, a clean process conducted during commissioning. 
In 2020, we used approximately 14.21 million gallons of water for hydrostatic testing, most of which we reused or returned to the same basin where it originated. Williams used about 10% less water in 2020 than 
in 2019 due to lower construction activity in 2020 compared to 2019. We take additional water stewardship actions where possible. For example, we were permitted to use 1.38 million gallons of water from Turkey Creek 
in Garfield County, Oklahoma, for hydrotesting on sections of our Bluestem project. Instead, we reused water from adjacent test sections, eliminating the need to withdraw any water from Turkey Creek. We focus on reducing the amount 
of wastewater produced from 
cooling towers designed to cool 
the circulating water used in our processing plants. In doing so, we can minimize the amount of water that needs to be consumed or treated and discharged from our facilities. For example, in late 2019, Williams completed a process modernization project at Station 240 in Bergen County, New Jersey, that eliminated 6 to 10 million gallons of cooling tower wastewater in 2020. This $139 million investment was a voluntary upgrade that brought the Station 240 facility in line with our other Pine Needle and Plymouth 
LNG facilities.Williams also supports broad-based research and initiatives on 
water-related topics. For example, we are a member of the Consortium to Study Trends in Seismicity 
(CSTS), a public-private project 
to study seismicity trends in 
Kansas. The information obtained through the CSTS project is helping improve our understanding of the increases in seismicity in Kansas 
and Oklahoma observed since 
2013. As part of the project, the CSTS installed seismic stations strategically around the state. 
While inconclusive, data gathered indicates a correlation between regional decreases in injection volumes and the number of earthquakes and total seismic 
energy released. The findings 
from this project may help shape underground injection control disposal practices going forward. 
As a member of the CSTS, Williams provides funding for the project 
and reviews data reports prior 
to publication.Williams focuses on preserving water at the highest rate possible, which is why we return the majority of water used back to the original watershed.WasteProperly managing nonhazardous and hazardous waste from Williams’ operations mitigates environmental impacts, promotes safe operations and protects human health. 
Williams generates waste during the transportation, gathering, processing and treating processes. Common types of waste from our facilities and pipeline systems include used oil, pipeline coating, scrap metal and contaminated soils. While waste represents a relatively small portion of our overall environmental impact, we focus on proactively reducing waste from our operations and effectively managing the waste we do generate. The Williams Integrated Management System establishes a standardized process for managing hazardous and nonhazardous waste at company sites that includes waste characterization, storage, handling, packaging, transportation and disposal. This process, combined with training and compliance 
audits, forms the basis of our waste management approach. We evaluate waste management practices and performance as a part of the EAP for enhanced compliance assurance.Williams manages operational 
waste through prescriptive measures, including placing waste 
in designated, labeled containers, maintaining waste storage areas, conducting inspections and disposing of waste based on 
all applicable regulations. Our environmental specialists assist operations with waste classification, disposal and reporting. In our corporate offices, we pay special attention to recycling 
items such as paper, plastic and cardboard. In 2020, our Tulsa headquarters collected and recycled an estimated 45 tons of materials. We continue to seek practical opportunities to reduce waste from our offices and field operations. 
For example, we are conducting 
an internal assessment to identify facilities with the greatest potential 
to switch existing lighting technology to more efficient LED lightbulbs.To promote the use of our products in a safe and environmentally sound manner, we manage chemical inventory reporting through the Williams Integrated Management System operating requirement 
for Tier II reporting and hazard communication. Environmental specialists annually prepare and submit Tier II chemical inventory reports to the appropriate regulatory agencies. Williams’ Safety Data Sheets are publicly available to provide interested stakeholders with detailed information and meet local, state and federal requirements. 
For more information about Williams’ Safety Data Sheets, visit our website.Williams encourages recycling at our offices. 