Governance We believe it takes more than good business results to be a great company. As Williams  delivers the products people rely on for electricity, heating and cooking, we act ethically and with integrity. We actively engage with shareholders to communicate our viewpoints and performance on topics that affect our business results. Our efforts are underpinned by the Williams board of directors. Ethics & Integrity GRI 102-16; 102-17; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 206-1 Williams has a long history rooted in ethics and integrity. The Code of Business Conduct sets the ethical conduct Our founders, Dave and Miller Williams, set the tone in expectations for officers, directors and employees at all 1908 as they began a legacy with the motto, “a good job levels. It also applies to Williams subsidiaries and, in on time.” Today, our commitment to upholding the highest certain cases, our joint ventures. Our Code is the primary standards of ethics and compliance represents a key driver mechanism guiding our efforts to comply with all laws, of our ability to operate a sustainable, profitable company avoid conflicts of interest, maintain a safe and inclusive for the long run. workforce and report ethical concerns. The Code of Business Conduct is our primary mechanism to drive Our Core Values are ingrained in how we do our work every compliance with all laws, avoid conflicts of interest, day on behalf of our stakeholders. Acting authentically, safely, maintain a safe and inclusive workforce and report reliably and responsibly is the foundation for conducting our ethical concerns. Key topics addressed by our Code business. In 2019, we updated our Core Values to reflect the of Business Conduct include prohibitions of bribery, company’s current priorities and expectations of employees. corruption and the making of facilitation payments. The Williams board of directors and members of senior management approved the revised Core Values. Ethics and Compliance Governance Structure All employees must annually complete a Code of Business Conduct ethics and compliance training. As part of this computer-based training, employees must acknowledge that they have read and understand the Code of Business Conduct expectations. In addition, senior leadership must complete an 11-question certification to confirm their understanding of Code of Business Conduct expectations. New employees must complete the training within the first 30 days of employment. In 2019, 100% of Williams employees completed compliance and ethics training courses. We strictly prohibit any act of corruption, including bribery, the making of facilitation payments, fraud, extortion, conflicts of interest and the giving or receiving of gifts that are designed to influence the recipient’s judgment. The Williams board of directors audit committee has established procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters. Williams was not involved in any pending or completed legal actions, fines or settlements in 2019 regarding bribery, corruption or anti-competitive violations. The Williams Ethics and Compliance program is designed to effectively communicate and manage key elements of ethics and integrity, including through our Core Values, Code of Business Conduct and guidelines for reporting suspected violations. Williams’ chief ethics and compliance officer has oversight responsibility for our Ethics and Compliance program. The Williams Ethics Advisory panel is tasked with assessing the effectiveness of the Ethics and Compliance program and recommending enhancements as necessary. We incorporate benchmark comparative metrics in our annual assessment as part of the evaluation process. In coordination with the Ethics Advisory panel, internal subject matter experts and internal audit team, we also conduct an annual risk assessment to review compliance with our ethics policies. Reporting Violations We encourage our employees to report suspected violations of any law, regulation or company policy. It is against company policy for employees to engage in or tolerate retaliation or any form of harassment directed against an employee who reports a suspected problem in good faith. Williams offers several confidential mechanisms for reporting, including the Williams Business Ethics Resource Center, the Williams Action Line and our online ethics mailing address. The Williams Action Line is available to our employees 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and is operated by an independent third party to ensure confidentiality. We proactively communicate these resources through the Williams Ethics and Compliance program and on our internal and external websites. Williams evaluates all alleged violations of law or company policies to assess the need for and level of investigation. Williams determines the appropriate next steps and, where warranted, takes appropriate corrective action, up to and including dismissal. In 2019, we received 210 concerns through ethics reporting channels. The Williams board of directors receives quarterly reporting regarding the Ethics and Compliance program. Number of Inquiries Received Through Ethics Reporting Channels Human resources  71  74  58  Action line  55  51  32  Management  56  40  70  Business ethics  13  5  6  resources center  Other reporting channels  20  33  44  Total  215  203  210  Board Leadership GRI 102-18; 102-20; 102-23; 102-24; 102-32; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 405-1 Good governance is the foundation of long-term business success. Our board of directors is responsible for establishing broad corporate policies and overseeing overall company performance. Board members are kept informed about the business through discussions with the chief executive officer and other senior officers, regular reports and board and committee meetings. In 2019, the board met seven times. Board Structure & Corporate Governance In 2019, the Williams board of directors consisted of 12 accomplished and capable directors. All the directors are independent with the exception of our president and chief executive officer. At this time, the board’s current preferred governance structure is to have an independent director serve as board chair. The board of directors is required to stand for election at our annual meeting of stockholders. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines serve as a framework for governing the board of directors. The Williams board has four standing committees: audit; compensation and management development; governance and sustainability; and environmental, health and safety. Each of our board committees is entirely composed of independent directors, and during 2019, no fewer than five independent directors served on each committee. The committees provide updates at each regular board meeting to keep the entire board of directors abreast of pertinent information. For detailed information on each board committee, please see the board committees and charters page of our website. We have a board policy limiting the number of public company boards on which a Williams director can serve. Directors are apprised of the policy and our corporate secretary group annually reviews the director’s responsibilities to make sure over-boarding does not occur. The compensation and management development committee oversees the establishment and administration of Williams’ compensation programs, including incentive compensation and equity-based plans. Our compensation programs are designed to align with company priorities. For example, safety metrics comprise 10% of the Annual Incentive program targets for all employees, including our executive officers. In coordination with the full board of directors, the committee works to uphold compensation programs that support the interests of our long-term shareholders. In 2019, more than 96% of the votes cast in the stockholder advisory vote on executive compensation were in favor of the company’s executive compensation program. For more details on our executive compensation program, see the 2019 Proxy Statement. In addition to our board structure, our board has adopted other practices to facilitate strong corporate governance. For instance, the board and each of its committees conduct annual evaluations and self-assessments. Non-employee directors meet without management present at each regularly scheduled board meeting. We have a majority vote standard for the election of directors in uncontested elections. Our directors, as well as our officers and other employees, are prohibited from engaging in short sales or hedging transactions in Williams securities. Board Selection Process We value a diverse board of directors that provides a range of viewpoints and perspectives. We seek highly qualified, non-employee candidates with, among other qualities, demonstrated leadership abilities, a reputation for honesty and integrity and a commitment to represent shareholder interests. The governance and sustainability committee is responsible for recommending to the board new directors who reflect an appropriate balance of experience, skills and characteristics. At each of its regularly scheduled meetings, the governance and sustainability committee evaluates the board’s composition to assess if the board has the right mix of skills and experience. As part of its director selection and nominating process, the committee annually assesses the board’s diversity in such areas as geography, race, gender, ethnicity and age. We strive to maintain a board of directors with diverse occupational and personal backgrounds. The mandated retirement date for a director is the first annual meeting of stockholders following the director’s 75th birthday, unless otherwise voted on and waived. We have a board policy limiting the number of public company boards on which a Williams director can serve. Directors are apprised of the policy and our corporate secretary group annually reviews the director’s responsibilities to make sure over-boarding does not occur. Sustainability Oversight Sustainability topics can arise in the context of all committees and the full board. The governance and sustainability committee has primary responsibility for providing oversight and guidance on environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. The governance and sustainability committee also receives progress updates on the development of our Sustainability Report during regularly scheduled committee meetings. Building on our commitment to sustainability, in 2019, we renamed our nominating and governance committee to governance and sustainability committee to better reflect the committee’s ESG oversight responsibilities. The environmental, health and safety committee is responsible for reviewing, monitoring and reporting to the full board on the company’s environmental, health and safety performance, including reviewing key metrics and reviewing compliance with applicable regulations. Sustainability topics of particular interest to the board of directors in 2019 included safety, environmental issues, human capital and cybersecurity, among others. Responsibility and oversight of ESG topics does not end with the board. Williams has processes in place to make sure that accountability for ESG performance cascades across the organization. Williams’ environmental, social and governance director is responsible for developing and executing our ESG integration strategy and engaging with Williams’ shareholders to understand ESG expectations and communicate our performance. Our sustainability steering committee is a designated leadership team tasked with supporting the development of Williams’ sustainability communications and implementing operational initiatives across the business. Risk Management The board of directors is responsible for oversight and guidance on organizational planning, strategy and risk management. As part of this effort, the board participates in an annual strategy session positioned to evaluate Williams’ long-term strategy, including top risks that could affect the execution of the company’s strategy. Williams’ top risks are identified during an annual strategic risk assessment process conducted by the strategy team with input from senior leaders. For each top risk, a tolerance is defined and a risk alignment rating is assigned. The risks may directly or indirectly correspond with sustainability topics for the company. Results from the strategic risk assessment are presented to the board of directors during the annual strategy session. WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Recognition for Female Board Representation The nonprofit organization, 2020 Women on Boards, recognized Williams for having a board of directors composed of 25% women. Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Debbie Cowan accepted the award on behalf of Williams in Oklahoma City in November 2019. 2020 Women on Boards is a grassroots campaign supported by individuals, organizations and companies that embrace the principle that diversity in the boardroom encourages good corporate decisions. The organization’s mission is to help raise the percentage of women who serve on corporate boards in the United States to 20% or greater by 2020. Shareholder Relations GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 Shareholders depend on our track record of safe, reliable operations that deliver long-term, stable returns. Running a sustainable business is an expected behavior at Williams. We have proven experience working with regulators, policymakers and stakeholders to minimize risk in order to build the critical infrastructure needed to fuel our clean energy economy. Environmental Specialist Barry Mahar, Field Office Administrator Sue Conner and Liaison Project Manager Mark Machalek in Wysox, Pennsylvania. We actively engage with shareholders to communicate our viewpoints and performance on topics that influence our business results. Williams’ corporate governance policies and activities are designed to provide our shareholders with company information that is accurate, timely and meaningful. We are committed to providing our investors an attractive return over the long term. Our dialogue with shareholders allows us to address issues, share relevant information and align on facts. In 2019, members of our executive management team attended 15 investor conferences, 13 on-site investor meetings and two non-deal roadshows. We host an annual Williams analyst day, during which Williams management gives in-depth presentations covering all the company’s businesses. We provide our shareholders several outlets for communicating with Williams. We host an earnings webcast and conference call each quarter, which enables our executive management team to respond to questions regarding both historical results and forward-looking information. Our dedicated investor relations group receives and responds to shareholder telephone calls, emails and other communications. Shareholders can also communicate directly with our board of directors by contacting our corporate secretary or the board chair. In 2019, we made efforts to modernize and streamline the Williams investor relations webpage to strengthen how we deliver online communications to shareholders. Sustainability topics continue to be a focus for many of our investors. Williams recognizes that ESG matters can significantly affect a public company’s long-term financial value. We publish an annual Sustainability Report to provide investors with transparency related to our ESG performance. Williams also responds to the CDP climate change questionnaire to disclose decision-useful information for shareholders related to climate change. In 2019, we engaged several of our largest active and passive shareholders, representing an estimated 15% of shares outstanding, to request feedback on our ESG reporting. Based on this feedback, we took steps to increase the comparability of Williams’ performance relative to industry peers by aligning our reporting with the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) industry standards. For more information on our alignment with SASB, please see page 72. At Williams, we understand our responsibility to our shareholders, and we continually seek opportunities to improve our engagement strategies. In 2019, Williams worked with a third party to conduct an investor perception study that included in-depth interviews with more than 30 investors and analysts. The results of the study will influence how we manage shareholder relations in 2020. Government Relations GRI 102-13; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 415-1 Government policies at the federal, state and local level impact Williams’ existing operations and future project plans. Continued company growth is dependent on government support for energy infrastructure expansion in North America. Williams works with government stakeholders and regulatory agencies on topics related to Williams’ operations and policies that can affect company priorities. In 2019, we engaged on a variety of issues, including energy infrastructure, pipeline project permitting, pipeline safety and tax policies. Our government affairs and outreach team has primary responsibility for engaging policymakers and other government stakeholders on our projects and policy positions. In 2019, the team continued proactive outreach and education at all levels of government, including close collaboration with local government stakeholders to discuss our project work and address questions and concerns. Williams is in the process of updating our stakeholder management system to enhance engagement with individuals through newsletters and other corporate communications. The new system will also allow Williams to better track support for company initiatives. Having had the pleasure of engaging Williams’ personnel from support staff to the CEO, I have been impressed with the company’s leadership in collaborating with key stakeholders to identify solutions that meet shared clean energy goals. At an energy conference, I observed Williams’ CEO taking the time to thoughtfully engage with individual landowners and stakeholders about ways to improve community engagement and project development. It was refreshing to see. Williams’ Fort Lupton gas plant in Colorado. Trade Associations Williams belongs to a number of trade associations at the national, state and local levels. Active membership in trade associations helps us amplify the industry voice and collectively work on public policy priorities. We serve as board members, participate in technical and public policy committees, and support advocacy and public education efforts. The primary trade associations we engage with include the following: • American Petroleum Institute • American Society of Mechanical Engineers • American Society of Safety Engineers • Association of Oil Pipelines • GPA Midstream • Interstate Natural Gas Association of America • Marcellus Shale Coalition • National Petroleum Council • National Society of Professional Engineers • Northwest Gas Association • Southern Gas Association • Tulsa Regional Chamber of Commerce One example of our engagement with trade associations was our work in 2019 with the Marcellus Shale Coalition, West Virginia Oil and Natural Gas Association and Ohio Oil and Gas Association. During the endeavor, we provided in-depth information to policymakers, regulators and other public stakeholders in Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio on the positive impacts responsible natural gas production is having on local communities in these areas. The trade associations that we engage with have varied positions on key public policy issues that are often, but not always, aligned with those of Williams. Williams discloses all expenditures of corporate funds to these associations used for nondeductible lobbying and political expenditures on our website. Political Contributions Williams makes political contributions that support the advancement of the company’s interests and those of our industry. When Williams contributes to candidate campaigns, our legal department reviews to confirm adherence with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, the governance and sustainability committee of the board of directors annually reviews the company’s political contributions. WILLCO PAC, Williams’ political action committee, was created in 1985 and is a nonprofit committee registered with the Federal Election Commission. WILLCO PAC is an independent, nonpartisan entity that raises contributions from eligible Williams employees to support candidates for congressional and state offices where permitted by law. Employee participation in WILLCO PAC is strictly voluntary. WILLCO PAC giving and corporate political giving include bipartisan contributions to federal and state campaign committees and candidates for elected office. In 2019, Williams’ corporate political contributions included $50,000 in total disbursements to the Democratic Governors Association; $63,950 in corporate political contributions in Maryland, South Carolina and Virginia; and $38,100 to various state-level candidates and organizations. We are fully compliant with all lobby registration requirements and verify that our contract lobbyists are in compliance. Williams’ federal disclosures for our lobbying activities are available on our website, including the company’s aggregate spending for lobbying and payments to lobby service providers. Cybersecurity GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 Cyberattacks can result in physical harm, financial losses and reputation damage. We are committed to protecting Williams’ facilities, operations and business-critical information to preserve stakeholder trust and promote the long-term sustainability of our business. Williams implements preventive measures, company-wide policies and training courses to avert unauthorized access to our physical locations and computerized systems. In 2019, we blocked nearly 125,000 emails, internet access attempts and malicious actions. Williams has several policies in place related to cybersecurity, from data classification and protection to password management. Our Cybersecurity Incident Response Policy provides a structured and systematic process for managing incidents that can affect Williams and any applicable third parties. The policy includes step-by-step guidelines for establishing a timely, consistent response to mitigate the effects of any security incidents on our customers, partners and employees. Our cybersecurity awareness and training standard helps ensure that all employees, contractors and vendors are aware of cybersecurity risks. In 2019, 99.4% of our employees completed cybersecurity training to reduce risk exposure. We also deploy simulated phishing emails to practice identifying and responding to email attacks. Employees or contractors who fail a phishing email test are required to complete additional training. Because of these efforts, we successfully reduced the number of unsuccessful phishing tests by 50% in 2019. Williams supplements training programs with awareness initiatives that call attention to cybersecurity through posters, presentations, newsletters and events. For the past five years, Williams has hosted a Know Williams event during national Cybersecurity Awareness Month to inform employees about the different types of cybersecurity risks. In 2019, we created an Escape Room activity that gave employees an opportunity to learn valuable principles about cybersecurity in a fun, team setting. Our commitment to mitigating cybersecurity risks extends to all levels of the organization, from facility personnel to the board of directors. We develop a quarterly Cybersecurity Board Report to communicate our performance and any identified risks to the board of directors. In 2019, we developed an executive-level steering committee to provide additional oversight on Williams’ cybersecurity initiatives. We conduct regular internal audits and risk strategy sessions to assess cybersecurity threats and respond accordingly. To complement this effort, Williams contracts with a third party to evaluate our corporate and operations networks. We remain focused on continuously improving our approach to managing cybersecurity. In 2019, we developed a maturity benchmark to better evaluate our performance. Operations Manager Caleb Minton and Operations and Maintenance Optimizer Terrell Brown at our operations center in Moundsville, West Virginia. 