Strengthening CommunitiesFor more than 100 years, Williams and our employees have positively influenced the lives of the local communities we call home. We develop lasting relationships with community members because we know Williams will be there for the long term. Honesty and transparency are core to Williams’ beliefs, which is how we maintain our reputation as a good neighbor with suppliers and community members. We work hard to understand unique local challenges and provide support through investing in communities and promoting responsible supply chain management.Aerial photograph of a town with a river and tree-lined mountains in the background.Williamsport, Pennsylvania.Community RelationsWilliams strives to be an exceptional member of the local communities where we live and work. We actively engage with a variety of community stakeholders, from local business owners and community leaders to public officials and nongovernmental organizations. Williams focuses on open dialogue and proactive partnerships with community members. Williams defines stakeholder engagement as activities specifically conducted to inform parties regarding Williams’ expansion projects, operational activities or other notable business activities. In 2021, we participated in more than 186 stakeholder engagements with local communities, including 30 community events, two open houses, 31 meetings with chambers of commerce, six environmental justice meetings, 35 meetings with county commissioners and 82 meetings with other stakeholders.2021 Stakeholder EngagementPie chart showing the following data.186TOTAL30	Community Events2	Open Houses31	Meetings With Chambers of Commerce6	Environmental Justice Meetings35	Meetings With County Commissioners82	Other[1][1].Includes one-time meetings or interactions with community stakeholders or organizations.Engagement Williams’ community and project outreach team is the central contact point for stakeholder engagement related to pipeline infrastructure projects. The team develops and maintains a project-specific public participation plan for major projects. We use our Public Outreach Strategy Guide when implementing these plans, formally outlining Williams’ approach to community engagement and consultation. The guide emphasizes the importance of early contact, continual communication and flexibility throughout the lifecycle of our projects. Executive oversight of community engagement is the responsibility of our vice president of communications and corporate social responsibility, and our vice president of government affairs and public outreach. In the communities where Williams has expansion projects, we employ specialized consulting services to develop distinct outreach and stakeholder engagement plans that use local specialists.The Williams company website is one of our most effective engagement methods for communicating project-specific information, such as our project scope and schedule, contact information, maps and fact sheets. For example, at Compressor Station 203, we created a website for communicating updates on venting events to stakeholders and community members. We continue to prioritize two-way dialogue where possible. The COVID-19 pandemic, and associated shutdowns, continued to affect Williams’ engagement with local communities. We used our learnings from 2020 to engage virtually when necessary, and in person when safe. Whether engaging virtually or in person, we strive to ensure every community member can access information about our projects. To foster inclusion, we translated expansion project information into the most common language among non-English speakers in the proposed project area. We implemented this process for the Regional Energy Access Expansion and Southside Reliability Expansion projects, where we translated project-specific websites and printed fact sheets into Spanish.We uphold a process for receiving, analyzing and responding to community concerns. The company maintains a dedicated email address to receive and manage concerns related to operations of our facilities. The email address is provided on project materials, company handouts, letters to stakeholders and project-specific web pages.Williams employee raking leaves in front of a brick-lined fence.Senior Accounting Analyst Tessa Petry at Day of Caring in Tulsa, Oklahoma.UPHOLDING REGULATORY REQUIREMENTSWilliams continues to meet required regulatory notifications and manage interactions with stakeholders using our stakeholder management systems. Williams deployed the stakeholder database for our Southside Reliability Enhancement project, sending 1,266 letters to stakeholders informing them about the project and community open houses. In addition, the database enables us to communicate ongoing expansion projects. We leveraged the database to share newsletter status updates on the Regional Energy Access Expansion and Leidy South Expansion projects. Williams electronically sent our periodic Regional Energy Access Expansion project newsletter to over 2,800 recipients, informing them of the latest project milestones, background on Williams’ operations and information on upcoming community activities. We also used our stakeholder management systems to gain new contacts for our Station 185 notification effort. Williams employs the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (FERC) voluntary pre-filing process to engage affected stakeholders before the submittal of a formal project certificate application. Our activities include public meetings and consultations with elected officials, community leaders and affected landowners.Following the FERC pre-filing process, Williams holds a series of open houses to inform landowners and stakeholders about the scope and need for the proposed project. When hosting open houses, the company seeks ways to meet public preferences and not discourage any community members from participating in the process. Williams held one in-person and one virtual open house in 2021 for the Southside Reliability Enhancement project. We followed COVID-19 state protocols by including social distancing, face masks and capacity limit requirements for all in-person events. We scheduled virtual open houses to align with the dates of in-person events. During the open houses, Williams provided a project overview and online, interactive maps, which allowed attendees the opportunity to submit comments regarding the project directly onto the maps.PROMOTING ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICEEnvironmental justice laws, regulations and other government policies are evolving quickly at the state and federal levels. We actively seek opportunities to engage in dialogue with residents and leaders in underserved communities to gain a meaningful understanding of the critical issues from the individuals who know them best. We also pursue partnerships with community-based organizations that serve distinct needs in local communities. These partnerships provide direct channels to further engage community members who utilize the services provided by these organizations. Williams identifies underserved populations using the guidance and methodologies determined by the EPA’s Federal Interagency Working Group on Environmental Justice and the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) committee. In addition, Williams follows state guidance when identifying underserved communities. To learn more about our approach to identifying these population groups, see the methodology outlined in the publication, Promising Practices for EJ Methodologies in NEPA Reviews. To track rapidly evolving policies, Williams developed a state-by-state summary of existing and proposed environmental justice regulations. We continuously consider the impacts of environmental and energy policy on the communities we serve. We expect our approach to environmental justice will mature as we learn from the communities where we operate and respond to new government policies. We communicate company-wide on the importance of environmental justice and outreach efforts in the communities where we currently work and plan to work. We take a comprehensive and thoughtful approach to engaging underserved communities during project planning and construction, and after placing a project into service. Williams maintains a presence in communities through our ongoing engagements to show our commitment to being an active, engaged community member. Engagement with varied and diverse stakeholders often leads to referrals to other organizations, providing new engagement opportunities and a growing network of stakeholders.In 2021, we improved our ability to recognize potential environmental justice concerns raised by proposed projects early in the planning process. Williams developed a tool to identify underserved population groups in the vicinity of planned projects to assess, avoid and mitigate potential environmental justice concerns. The tool aggregates detailed demographic information for Williams to develop outreach strategies tailored to specific population groups. For example, we translate project information into multiple languages and host additional stakeholder meetings during the daytime and evening hours. Williams increases stakeholder participation and maximizes engagement with underserved population groups using this tool.In addition, the FERC announced the development of its new Office of Public Participation and began staffing key roles in 2021. Williams intends to be a resource for this office by sharing our public outreach and stakeholder engagement practices. Additionally, the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America (INGAA) named Williams a member of its Environmental Justice Task Force.Community InvestmentActive involvement in the communities where our employees live and work is at the heart of Williams’ company culture. As local communities demand reliable, low-cost, low-carbon energy, Williams will be there to listen to the needs of our neighbors and provide support through strategic initiatives designed to make a difference. We focus our community giving on initiatives that help energize employees, strengthen communities and enhance business execution. In 2021, we contributed over $12.1 million to more than 2,100 organizations across 48 states through our community giving channels, including cash contributions, in-kind donations and matching programs. Despite continued challenges posed by COVID-19, Williams increased charitable contributions from 2020 to 2021. The Williams Foundation The Williams Foundation, a nonprofit 501(c)3, was established in 1974 to guide our community investments. The Foundation board of directors meets semiannually and advises Williams charitable giving across the states where we operate. The board collaborates with executive leaders and our corporate social responsibility team to develop and approve comprehensive budgets for supporting specific charitable programs. The Williams Foundation bylaws and charitable contributions standard outline our giving process and safeguard the integrity of our contributions.Williams’ Employee Disaster Relief Fund supports employees experiencing severe financial need due to disasters. At the start of 2021, Texas and Louisiana experienced unprecedented freezing temperatures, leaving many Williams employees in need of support. Williams received 15 employee applications for relief funds and provided more than $33,000 in short-term assistance. Additionally, Williams donated $40,000 to American Red Cross chapters across Texas.For additional information about the Foundation’s investments and achievements, please see our 2021 Community Investments Report. In 2021, we contributed over $12.1 million to more than 2,100 organizations across 48 states through our community giving channels, including cash contributions, in-kind donations and matching programs. Group of Williams employees standing together and smiling.Williams employees volunteering to support communities.Williams employee holding a portion of a fence while wearing gloves.Executive Assistant Marie Tucker at Day of Caring in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Corporate Giving Over the past five years, Williams has contributed more than $53 million to support local communities. We focus on science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education; workforce readiness efforts; park and land conservation programs; first responder and disaster relief efforts; health and human services agencies; and other initiatives to help strengthen our communities. Williams accepts external grant applications throughout the year on the company website and awards grants on a quarterly basis.Our Core Values make us responsible stewards and reliable partners, especially in communities with great needs. Williams’ operating area leaders and program area committees assist with identifying organizations and initiatives that meet the unique needs of the diverse communities where we operate. Williams has long been a supporter of United Way and its mission to bring people and organizations together to drive lasting change around the country and the world. Williams and our employees, retirees and board members supported more than 150 local area United Way agencies, raising $4.9 million in 2021. The total funds include pledges, fundraisers and the company’s matching funds. Williams’ leader Scott Hallam extended his engagement with United Way by serving as the chair of the Greater Houston’s annual community campaign. May 2021 marked the centennial commemoration of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre, during which a white mob attacked residents, homes and businesses in the Greenwood area, also known as Black Wall Street. Williams moved its headquarters to Tulsa in 1918 and remains one of a few businesses located in Tulsa when Black Wall Street thrived. The 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial Commission hosted events, such as vigils, concerts, art exhibits and parades during the months leading up to the commemoration. Williams contributed $50,000 to support these events and hosted an art installation in the public area of our headquarters as part of a Greenwood Art Project exhibition throughout Tulsa. The art installations intend to memorialize influential voices and significant events related to the Tulsa Race Massacre.Annual Community GivingBar graph depicting Williams' annual community giving in millions of dollars from 2017 to 2021. In 2017, donations totaled $10.7 million. In 2018, donations totaled $10.2 million. In 2019, donations totaled $9.7 million. In 2020, donations totaled $10.8 million. In 2021, donations totaled $12.0 million.2021 Community Giving by Program AreaPie chart showing the following data.21%	United Way19%	Civic Betterment17%	Environmental Quality, Protection and Beautification16%	Health and Human Services13%	Education4%	Safety4%	Arts, Culture and Humanities4%	In Kind2%	OtherA child putting on a life vest while walking through the gates to a harbor, following behind another child already wearing a life vest. The back of the child's shirt says, "The Urban Assembly New York Harbor School."The Urban Assembly Harbor School in New York City.SUPPORTING LAND CONSERVATIONDoing what is right for our local communities is ingrained in who we are at Williams. To that end, we develop private-public partnerships to help improve or preserve wildlife habitat and water resources.In 2021, the Wyoming Game and Fish Department (WGFD) awarded Williams with its Industry Wildlife Stewardship Award for our positive impact on wildlife and habitat in Wyoming. As part of our ongoing partnership with the WGFD, we provide financial support for environmental curriculum, projects to create wildlife crossings that increase public safety and access for fishing and hunting. In addition, we continue to foster relationships and serve as responsible stewards by participating in volunteer efforts to benefit the WGFD every year. We also expanded our engagement with Ducks Unlimited to central Kansas in 2021. Williams donated $50,000 to enhancing 160 acres of the McPherson Wildlife Area. As a result, Ducks Unlimited recognized Williams with its Benefactor Roll of Honor during the ceremony for McPherson Valley Wetlands. Ducks Unlimited is a nonprofit organization dedicated to conserving wetlands and associated upland habitats for waterfowl, other wildlife and people across the U.S. Williams partnered with the South Santiam Watershed Council in 2021 to implement stream enhancements at Thomas Creek in Oregon. The project focuses on improving the channel complexity, reducing the width-to-depth ratio and increasing native aquatic species and wildlife. Williams has helped fund riparian enhancements and educational signage along the creek. Restoring the riparian habitat helps protect against erosion and improves future instream habitat for salmon, steelhead and other native fish species. INVESTING IN EDUCATIONLooking ahead, Williams also wants to prepare the next generation for careers in STEM. In 2021, Williams provided more than $900,000 to help bring STEM education to those who might not be exposed to these high-quality learning opportunities, which lead to careers in well-paying STEM fields. Williams funds programs at technical schools and universities to ensure we are building a diverse talent pipeline to meet our company’s workforce needs as we drive toward a clean energy future. Starting with middle school, we also help prepare students in grades 6 through 8 for future careers in the energy industry. For example, eighth-graders in Oklahoma learned what it is like to work at Williams in a unique career fair offered virtually by Junior Achievement (JA). In response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the JA Inspire event transitioned to a fully virtual event in 2021, enabling more students to participate. Williams hosted a virtual booth where students could find out more about the company and industry, including live videos and chats with employees.We also partner with Cristo Rey Jesuit College Preparatory School of Houston to support their work-study program. For more than 10 years, the program introduced dozens of students to careers in the energy industry, building skills that will help them succeed in college and beyond. Every Cristo Rey student participates in the work-study program, working one day a week at a corporate partner’s office to earn educational and professional experience. Williams also donated 370 desktop and laptop computers to the school to be used for corporate work-study, a video editing class, an art class and replacing outdated computers.In addition, Williams supported the Urban Assembly New York Harbor School on Governors Island in New York City. Students receive exposure to the maritime field through the school’s seven career and technical education programs. The students solve real-world problems together through their class experiences. These experiences include driving boats, maintaining scuba equipment, hydroponic farming and marine biology field testing. Williams supported the school’s career and technical education program with a $5,000 grant in 2021.At the college level, Williams understands the importance of practical, hands-on learning when it comes to natural gas operations. In 2021, we provided the School of Petroleum and Natural Gas at Lackawanna College, Pennsylvania, with a new laboratory for students to learn how to operate and maintain compressor engines and other oil and gas equipment. Williams is donating $105,000 over three years to support the laboratory. Williams also donated $20,000 in 2021 to endow a scholarship at the school.Headshot of Paul Beck.Since our inception 13 years ago, every one of our graduates has been accepted into colleges all over the country, and it is the support we get from companies like Williams that helps make it happen.PAUL BECK, PRESIDENT, CRISTO REY JESUIT COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL OF HOUSTONEmployee Volunteering Williams’ commitment to being a reliable partner in the communities that our employees call home extends beyond financial support. We grant employees time off to volunteer with charitable organizations that address critical needs and fuel their passions. Williams’ employees are proactive in helping their communities and each other in times of need. Across the country, our employees serve on nonprofit boards and as mentors, coaches, committee members and volunteer firefighters. To help employees maximize their contributions to local communities, we fund employee-driven charitable giving programs, including our homegrown giving and matching gifts programs. Our homegrown giving program enables employees to support the unique needs of their local communities through grants designed to support eligible, nonprofit organizations. Williams’ matching gifts program annually matches contributions to eligible organizations up to $10,000 per employee or board member and up to $5,000 per retiree.In 2021, Williams employees volunteered more than 23,000 hours with charitable organizations, representing $662,584 in value based on an estimated value of $28.54 per volunteer hour.[1][1].Independent Sector, Value of Volunteer Time.A male Williams employee using garden equipment in front of a white fence.Williams employee volunteering in Tulsa, Oklahoma.A female Williams employee facing a group of veterans during the Welcome Home 5K Honor Mile.WILLIAMS WILL BE THEREAssisting With Health & Human ServicesWilliams is proud to support our nation’s veterans and their families. We engage with the Eagle OPS Foundation, a 501(c)3 organization committed to providing opportunities for veterans, veteran families and patriots to develop long-lasting relationships through volunteerism, social activities and health events. Williams has sponsored the Eagle OPS Foundation’s annual Welcome Home 5K Honor Mile since 2018, contributing more than $50,000 to the organization. The Welcome Home 5K Run raises funds to support veteran suicide prevention programs.Headshot of Johnathon Shepherd. Williams’ unwavering support of the Eagle OPS mission has enabled us to assist over 1,000 service members, veterans and their families through over 80 boots-on-the-ground rally points in 2021. With Williams as a partner, these rally points assist Eagle OPS to further connect service members, veterans and their families to much needed community resources to help them in a healthy transition home.JOHNATHON SHEPHERD, DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS, EAGLE OPS FOUNDATIONAerial photograph of rolling green fields surrounded by tree-lined mountains.Transco station 610 near tribal land in Pennsylvania.Indigenous PeoplesOur understanding of different cultures, traditions and beliefs is integral for continued ethical and responsible growth. We invest our time into building understanding with Indigenous Peoples in the areas of our operations and respect the tribal sovereignty of the federally recognized tribes in the U.S. Our goal is to build trust through open communication and regular dialogue with the tribes living near our operations.As a company with interstate pipelines regulated by the FERC, we adhere to Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act. The Act requires consultation on all activities that may affect property of cultural or religious significance to tribes. As part of Section 106, tribes must have a reasonable opportunity to identify concerns about affected properties and to advise Williams on the identification and evaluation of these properties. Williams’ public outreach and environmental permitting teams have primary responsibilities for tribal outreach efforts. Developing trusting relationships with Native American tribes has never been more important for our nation’s energy industry, particularly for those sectors in which Williams operates. Our Human Rights Policy and Statement outlines our commitment to respect human rights and avoid complicity in human rights abuses, including those of Indigenous Peoples. In 2021, Williams had no incidents of violations involving the rights of Indigenous Peoples. Additionally, we continue to use an internal guide to provide best practices and recommended processes for successfully engaging this key stakeholder group. See Protecting Human Rights for more information on how Williams protects human rights.The Southern Ute Indian Tribe is a party to ongoing negotiations between Williams and the U.S. Department of Justice, various U.S. EPA regions and various states regarding the resolution of certain LDAR Notices of Violation. The tribe also engaged in separate negotiations related to a former Williams asset in New Mexico. At present, there are no filed complaints naming Williams in connection with either matter.We complement our internal guide with land and permitting guidelines tailored to specific tribes. For example, we have established required guidelines for Williams’ employees working on lands managed by the Confederate Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation (CTUIR). The reservation is about 172,000 acres in Umatilla and Union counties, Oregon. Williams’ Northwest Pipeline system traverses approximately 10 miles of CTUIR land. To improve our understanding of indigenous relations, we created an Indigenous Peoples Council in 2021. The Council consists of Native American employees and allies, including representation from diverse stakeholder groups across Williams’ departments. In 2021, the Council focused its efforts on compiling best practices based on research of peer companies. In 2022, the Council plans to review and improve our company policies relating to Indigenous Peoples, formalize the tribal relations guide, recommend training and learning opportunities and discuss ways to improve supply chain diversity and talent development related to Indigenous Peoples.We work to achieve successful and mutually beneficial consultations with tribes. As part of that effort, we regularly identify opportunities to incorporate feedback from Native American tribes into our project planning. Our communications with Native American tribes remained relatively limited in 2021 because none of our projects required significant tribal engagement. We also participate on INGAA’s Tribal working group, where we continue to build understanding related to our engagement with Indigenous Peoples. As part of our commitment to building positive relationships with Indigenous Peoples, we provide meaningful charitable contributions to tribal initiatives. For the third consecutive year, Williams sponsored the Native American Youth Summit and was the presenting sponsor of the Dance of the Two Moons event, benefiting the Indian Health Care Resource Center in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Each year, hundreds of youth and their families participate in the Youth Summit, designed to help strengthen Native American youth physically, mentally, socially and culturally. In recognition of our continued support, the Indian Health Care Resources Center named Williams its 2021 Circle of Life Community Partner. Williams also provided a multi-year grant for IllumiNative, and sponsored Tulsa’s Native American Day and the American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) annual conference. The AISES conference is a virtual networking event aimed at increasing the representation of Indigenous Peoples of North America in STEM studies and careers. For more information on community giving at Williams, see the Community Investment.Headshot of Deb Starnes.Williams was recognized as our 2021 Circle of Life Community Partner. Their ongoing dedication to our youth programs before and during the pandemic is unparalleled. We are grateful…to everyone at Williams for investing in the future of the Native American community.DEB STARNES, CHIEF DEVELOPMENT OFFICER, INDIAN HEALTH CARE RESOURCES CENTERLandowner RelationsAs natural gas demand grows, we must periodically expand existing facilities or build new assets across our energy infrastructure systems that span 26 states. Our ability to reliably supply clean energy is, in part, due to the strong, long-term collaborations we have with more than 110,000 landowners. We work to maintain successful relationships with landowners who grant us the privilege of establishing permanent easements across private land. We strive to build landowner relationships based on mutual trust. In all cases, we treat landowners fairly by providing them reasonable financial compensation, protecting and restoring their land and respectfully operating on their property. Williams directly and regularly engages with our landowner partners through email, phone calls, mailings, open houses, in-person meetings and other forms of communication. We abide by INGAA’s Commitment to Landowners, a set of recommended behaviors that member companies agree to follow when engaging landowners. The commitment includes building lasting relationships through mutual respect and trust, providing accurate and timely information, negotiating in good faith, responding to landowner concerns in a timely fashion and driving continuous improvement. We continuously map our internal land professional trainings against INGAA requirements to remain in alignment with the Commitment to Landowners. We also adhere to applicable state regulations such as the Texas Landowner Bill of Rights. For existing partnerships, we conduct an annual checkup of our assets on landowner properties to confirm that our infrastructure continues to operate safely and unobtrusively. We have ongoing communications with landowners to resolve concerns and complaints. We encountered ongoing challenges with landowner engagements in 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Williams followed evolving state and federal COVID-19 regulations while hosting a combination of in-person and virtual meetings with landowners. Our land agents continued landowner engagements on the Regional Energy Access Expansion project by using the most effective methods for safely negotiating easement agreements. Williams embraced new technology to work effectively and safely throughout the pandemic, such as electronically notarizing, signing and recording documents.For proposed pipeline infrastructure projects, we apply a standardized approach to engage potentially affected landowners early in the process. We focus on early engagement to allow us time to explain the project, obtain permission to survey the land and conduct a formal negotiation process. Williams recognizes that landowners can have concerns related to our projects, including apprehension related to safety, property value and construction impacts. We encourage landowners to ask questions, voice concerns and communicate their preferences so we can create mutually beneficial solutions. For more information about how we provide accessible energy, and how Williams actively addresses concerns related to our operations, see Energy Access and Noise Management. Throughout the project planning process, Williams proactively circulates relevant project information to landowners, including company policies, frequently asked questions and steps for acquiring a right-of-way. For projects certified by the FERC, Williams is required to notify landowners up to half a mile from new compression facilities and all landowners affected by the proposed pipeline route. Two male Williams employees opening a gate in a field.Operations Technician Zac Compton and Operations Technician Brian Hauff at a right-of-way along the Transco pipeline in Virginia.Aerial photograph of a farm with red buildings and two silos, surrounded by green fields and trees.Aerial view of landowner property near Transco station 610 in Pennsylvania.We distribute a brochure developed by the FERC that describes what to expect if a proposed project runs through a landowner’s property. In 2021, we distributed 877 mailers to landowners for the FERC pre-filing process. We aim to reduce the impacts our infrastructure has on communities by attempting to locate the pipeline routes along existing rights-of-way, roadways or other utility corridors. We try to reroute when possible to avoid property owners who do not want to work with us. For projects certified by the FERC, we are allowed to use a federal eminent domain process. Our corporate philosophy is to introduce eminent domain only as a last resort. To support this process, Williams maintains a formal landowner complaint resolution procedure to identify concerns and determine an appropriate resolution in a timely manner. We strive to reach mutual agreements with all new landowners. In 2017, we had one case that was resolved through the full condemnation process. Since 2018, we have met our current goal of zero condemnations. Through an enhanced strategy of continuously developing and maintaining landowner and community relationships, Williams was able to adequately compensate landowners while having fewer condemnations.In 2021, through our successful negotiations and relationships with landowners, we reached mutually agreeable terms that resulted in the execution of 1,431 new land agreements.Noise Management Williams is committed to serving as a respectful neighbor in the communities where we operate. It is our responsibility to manage noise from our operations, and mitigate elevated sound levels that can negatively affect human health and the environment. We work with communities to do our part in fostering a safe environment and comply with federal, state and local regulations. Effective sound control begins with the permitting and design of any noise-generating facility. We incorporate equipment and architectural acoustics to limit sound levels below the maximum decibel levels established by federal, state and local noise regulations. We use a variety of technologies to reduce sound levels, including exhaust silencers, mufflers, low-speed fans and centrifugal compressor units. For example, we use mufflers when conducting blowdowns and purges on pipelines to minimize the venting noise. We complement technology measures with building and landscaping designs that use trees and noise walls for sound deflection and absorption. We implement these alternative noise controls in regions where our overall noise impact is below the U.S. decibel threshold. As our operations expand, technologies advance and the local landscape evolves, we adapt to make sure we remain in compliance with noise regulations. We are dedicated to responsibly controlling and minimizing noise impacts for our neighbors’ health and well-being. Pipeline infrastructure with trees in the background.Station 145 in North Carolina.Supply Chain Management & Responsible Procurement Williams’ interstate gas pipeline and gathering and processing operations span across the U.S., providing natural gas and natural gas products nationwide. We maintain our daily operations by using the materials, goods and services from more than 3,100 suppliers across the country. We value building relationships with suppliers that uphold our commitment to operational excellence, honor our Core Values and support our vision for sustainability throughout our operations. Our mission is to continue developing our procurement and supply chain management strategy to build a more resilient and sustainable supplier base.Supply Chain Management GRI 102-9 Our suppliers and contractors are essential to execute on our commitment to safely and reliably deliver natural gas products that help fuel the clean energy economy. Williams utilizes a tiered supplier relationship management process to segment suppliers into categories, enabling our enterprise to direct our spend through a supplier base defined by categorical strategy. Critical to this category strategy is identification of our Tier 1 suppliers, which are determined based upon the highest spend, strategic value and potential risks. On average, Tier 1 suppliers represent the top 80% of total annual spend.We value authenticity and integrity throughout our business, which includes work done in partnership with our suppliers and contractors. Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Contractors sets expectations for those with whom we work, to uphold our commitment to corporate citizenship and maintain our compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. The Code covers environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards including prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining, and environmental management. In 2021, we achieved full implementation of our Code, requiring acknowledgment from all our suppliers and contractors when signing procurement contracts and new purchase orders. Our Code is available on our external vendor terms and conditions website.2021 Supplier SpendingNumber of SuppliersPie chart showing the following data.226	Tier 12,931	Tier 2 and 3Total SpendingPie chart showing the following data.$1.35 billion	Tier 1$0.34 billion	Tier 2 and 3Williams holds suppliers to high standards on both product quality and services. Williams expects Tier 1 and other critical suppliers to comply with our company policies, performance expectations and regulatory requirements. Suppliers that do not meet our expectations may be subject to contractual remedies, up to and including termination. Additionally, Williams’ supplier audit program includes questions assessing supplier performance on social and environmental topics. In 2021, over 1,100 suppliers responded to questions covering ESG topics. We plan to use this supplier response data to further understand Williams’ supplier base.In our efforts to ensure sustainability in our operations, we continue to enhance our supplier qualification process, which includes a deeper review of supplier practices and commitments on social and environmental topics. We will continue to require new suppliers or suppliers under re-evaluation to complete a self-assessment questionnaire that includes questions on diversity, human rights policies and code of conduct for business partners. This approach allows Williams to conduct business with new and existing suppliers that align with Williams’ ESG expectations, specifically policies focused on environmental sustainability, diversity, pay equality, workplace harassment and data privacy. We will continue to work with our suppliers helping them improve and align with our ESG expectations. We anticipate developing a diverse supplier statement and implementing a diverse supplier initiative, program or policy in 2022.2021 Supplier ESG PerformancePolicies or procedures relating to sustainability or the environmentPie chart showing the following data.1,163RESPONSES38%	Yes62%	NoPolicy to promote diversity in hiring (including for executive-level hiring)Pie chart showing the following data.1,077RESPONSES33%	Yes67%	NoPolicy or procedure to promote pay equalityPie chart showing the following data.1,049RESPONSES28%	Yes72%	NoPolicy or procedure on workplace violence, sexual harassment and discriminationPie chart showing the following data.1,033RESPONSES69%	Yes31%	NoPolicies or procedures relating to data privacyPie chart showing the following data.1,040RESPONSES48%	Yes52%	NoPROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTSWilliams is committed to maintaining a business culture that respects internationally recognized human rights and prevents human rights infringements throughout our business actions. Our human rights commitment extends to our supply chain, whereby we expect our suppliers to honor our Core Values related to freely chosen employment, working hours, respect in the workplace, wages and benefits, and health and safety. We see supplier relationships as an opportunity to share best practices and promote continual learning and improvement with respect to human rights.Our Human Rights Policy and Statement outlines our commitment to respect human rights and avoid complicity in human rights abuses. The statement includes our expectations related to workplace discrimination, D&I, workplace conditions and freedom of association. Our commitment applies to everyone involved in Williams’ operations, including employees, officers, contractors, leased workers, suppliers, vendors and customers. In situations where Williams does not control operations, we collect relevant data and report all noncompliance issues to our compliance department, to confirm that involved parties follow human rights best practices.Since 1992, Williams has offered the Action Line, a 24/7 toll-free number that empowers employees and other stakeholders to report concerns including those related to human rights. Internal procedures are in place to handle all concerns submitted via the Williams Action Line. For more information on the Action Line, see Ethics & Compliance.Two female Williams employees speaking to each other behind pipeline infrastructure.Maintenance Coordinator Katie Durcik and Operations Manager Wendy Wagster at station 610 in Pennsylvania.Female Williams employee wearing a hard hat, eye protection and a safety vest, standing in a field.Environmental Specialist Shauna Akers at the Leidy South Expansion construction site in Pennsylvania.Responsible Procurement Williams is committed to procuring goods and services from qualified suppliers that meet our safety, compliance and credit requirements. We prioritize working with suppliers committed to advancing our sustainability goals through the inclusion of ESG-based criteria in our supplier evaluation and qualification process. We continue to identify opportunities to standardize and embed ESG criteria into our procurement process.Our Williams Procurement Policy establishes requirements for purchasing goods and services from suppliers. In 2021, we updated our policy to include language about our improved purchasing processes and sourcing strategies, allowing for better oversight on spending with environmentally and socially conscious suppliers. Our goal is to ensure that the services and goods acquired from suppliers are the result of transparent, objective, timely and cost-effective decision-making and risk management.We continue to work with local suppliers to promote economic development in our areas of operation. Our ability to hire locally depends on the availability of appropriately qualified individuals. For additional information on local economic development, see Economic Development. Williams maintains our efforts to support suppliers from historically underrepresented groups. In 2021, we finalized implementation of an enterprise-wide resource planning system that enhances our ability to execute through strategically identifying key areas to diversify our supply chain and collaborate with diverse suppliers. Since implementing the system, Williams has streamlined procurement and contracted activities, which enhances control and discipline in the execution of supply chain processes. We continue to work to stabilize and optimize the system.Additionally, we included a broader list of business classifications during our supplier registration request process to better understand the diversity of our existing supplier base. These business classifications include categories such as women-owned, veteran-owned, small business, and businesses in the Historically Underutilized Business Zones program. The Historically Underutilized Business Zones program helps small businesses in urban and rural communities gain preferential access to federal procurement opportunities. We have a goal to request that the top 80% of our supplier base provide their diversity classification beginning in 2022.As an example of our efforts to promote diversity in our supply chain, Williams worked with Wayne Enterprises, a women-owned and operated business, to procure fire retardant (FR) clothing. Williams included the FR clothing and overalls in our company’s online store, through which employees could purchase the items. With our commitment to responsible procurement, Williams’ employees purchased $63,500 of FR clothing and overalls from this business. Headshot of Briana Schulze.Fire retardant clothing is required personal protective equipment for our industry. Initially, I thought finding available and comfortable fire retardant clothing was a women’s issue, but came to find out this is an issue for all of our employees. Wayne Enterprises has been able to provide us an online store option with available inventory that can better meet our needs for this critical safety issue.BRIANA SCHULZE, DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS AT WILLIAMS Aerial photograph of a road intersecting rolling green fields with a sunset on the horizon, illuminating the fields in an orange glow. Land near Transco station 610 in Pennsylvania.