Social Williams could not make clean energy happen without our dedicated employees. We operate in a manner that protects our employees and contractors while safeguarding the public. We also recognize our responsibility to positively impact local communities through trusted relationships, meaningful investments and economic opportunities. Operations Supervisors Jeremie Detling and Erika Baldauff at Williams’ Oak Grove processing plant in Moundsville, West Virginia. Safety SASB EM-MD-540a.1; EM-MD-540a.2; EM-MD-540a.3; EM-MD-540a.4 and GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 403-1; 403-2; 403-4; 403-5; 403-7; 403-8; 403-9 Personnel Safety Employees are the driving force behind our ability to operate safely and reliably. As we deliver the products that heat homes and generate electricity for millions of Americans, we remain committed to doing the right thing, every time. Aligned with our Core Values, we operate in a safety-driven manner that protects our employees and contractors while safeguarding the public. Our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy provides a framework for integrating safety performance into our core business activities. Every employee and contractor is responsible for implementing this policy. The environmental, health and safety committee within the board of directors is responsible for governance and oversight regarding environmental, health and safety matters. The Williams Integrated Management System is how we put our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy into action. The management system serves as our company-wide platform to manage and reduce risks in our operations, including safety risks. Senior leadership within each operating area is responsible for implementing the appropriate operating requirements, project standards and site-specific procedures set forth through the Williams Integrated Management System. The system aligns with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) requirements. Training & Awareness We empower all employees and contractors to stop work if they suspect a safety hazard at any Williams location. Williams regularly recognizes our employees for their resolve to foster a safe work environment. In 2019, we implemented Shifting Gears, a new reward program aimed at recognizing employees for identifying and mitigating workplace hazards. Since 2017, Williams has achieved a 47% reduction in employee recordable injuries. Every employee completes safety training designed to promote on-the-job competency. Our annual training plan is tailored to the role of each employee based on the varying needs of office, field support and core field employees. In 2019, we developed a required training questionnaire tool to help managers confirm direct reports receive appropriate safety and compliance training based on specific roles and responsibilities. We have processes in place to assess training proficiency, including written knowledge checks and performance-based evaluations. We also promote behavior-based initiatives to minimize safety risks from human factors. To strengthen these initiatives, we implemented a Hazard Recognition Focus project in 2019 aimed at teaching personnel about workplace hazards and how to identify them. The main types of work-related injuries we experienced in 2019 included muscle strain, and hand and finger injuries. We maintain a strong safety culture by identifying, mitigating and communicating safety risks across the company. Williams expects every employee and contractor to report all incidents and near-misses related to personnel and process safety. We compile the results and share them with the entire company weekly to accelerate continuous improvement. Preliminary incident communications for both high potential severity and high actual severity incidents are communicated within a week to all employees to share initial findings and key takeaway messages. In 2019, we deployed an incident investigation training program to support our efforts to help standardize the incident investigation process. We remain disciplined in our approach to improve our Employee Total Recordable Incident safety culture and performance. Our continuous improvement Rate per 200,000 Work Hours team has an ongoing responsibility to improve safety, 1.2reliability and performance by evaluating existing processes 1.091.1and incorporating lessons learned. In 2018, we set a goal to reduce recordable injuries for employees by 15% in 2019. 1.0 We exceeded that goal with a 36% reduction in 2019. We set 0.9 0.81 a new goal to achieve a 10% reduction in 2020. Additionally, 0.8 we are taking a proactive approach to measuring our safety 0.7 0.55culture. Our environmental, health and safety assurance 0.6 team is facilitating safety culture assessments across the 0.5 organization, with a goal to complete an assessment at each of 0.4 our 22 franchises within the next three years. To date, we have 0.3 completed six assessments. Approximately one year after the 0.2 baseline reviews, follow-up assessments will be conducted 0.1 to ensure improvements in safety culture are being realized. 0 2017 2018 2019 WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Life Critical Focus Program Our Life Critical Focus program is designed to promote a daily culture of ongoing awareness of our 10 life-critical operating requirements. In 2019, we consolidated the number of operating requirements from 12 to 10 in an effort to streamline the program. We also redesigned our Life Critical annual field training with emphasis on applying relevant operating requirements to real-world situations. Williams’ leaders and employees received informational material each month designed to raise awareness of the requirements. DISABLING/BYPASSING A ELECTRICAL MANAGEMENT OF SAFE WORK LOCKOUT/TAGOUT SAFETY CONTROL DEVICE SAFETY CHANGE (MOC) MANAGEMENT HOT WORK CONFINED PRE-STARTUP LINE BREAK TRENCHING & SPACE ENTRY SAFETY REVIEW EXCAVATING Contractor Safety Our dedication to safety extends to third-party suppliers and contractors. Williams actively engages with contractors to support a safe work environment. Our standard contract language includes expectations for contractor and subcontractor safety qualifications, performance, competency and safety execution minimum requirements. We hold contractors accountable for satisfying contractual requirements and complying with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards. Williams’ contractor safety management plan helps us pre-screen contractors, confirm compliance with safety guidelines and monitor contractor safety performance. Our safety grading process assesses contractors based on key performance areas including total recordable incident rate, fatalities, citations, drug and alcohol program compliance and safety management system compliance. Contractors not meeting our minimum requirements must submit a Contractor Risk Management Plan that needs to be approved by leadership and implement improvements in order to do business with us. Williams conducts third-party safety audits and internal evaluations of our contractors to confirm they are meeting both regulatory and contractual requirements. Action items for the audits are tracked to closure. Failure to close actions by the due date results in a change of contractor status to “deficient” until actions are completed. Our environmental, health and safety specialists work with our contractors daily to maintain a safe and environmentally responsible work environment. We provide a site- and project-specific orientation for all contractors at the start of each project. Williams uses a visitor log system to manage on-site registration and check the status of all contractors entering the site. We utilize an environmental, health and safety questionnaire process on projects over $1 million to review the contractor’s safety management system and safety leadership maturity as part of our bid evaluation process. Prior to mobilization, contractors’ site-specific and environmental, health and safety management plans are reviewed against regulatory and contractual requirements to ensure contractors are integrated throughout the process. For large projects, we conduct four-hour safety leadership workshops for contractors and employees to emphasize the importance of superior safety performance, and provide the entire project workforce safety leadership and hazard recognition skills training. In 2019, we implemented a safety leadership workshop for on-site contractors and employees engaged in our Hillabee project in Alabama. In total, more than 280 personnel participated in the four-hour workshop. As part of our commitment to contractor safety, we collect and evaluate contractor safety metrics. We expect contractors to report all incidents and share lessons learned by completing incident investigations. In 2019, our contractor lost-time incident rate and total recordable incident rate were 0.09 and 0.83, respectively. Motor Vehicle Safety Motor vehicle safety continues to be a focus for Williams and the energy industry at large. We seek to eliminate preventable motor vehicle accidents through a combination of equipment updates and employee awareness. Telematics units are installed on all employee fleet vehicles to track, measure and improve driver safety. We collect metrics on acceleration, cornering, speeding and braking, and share the data with employee leaders. In 2019, we achieved a 36% reduction in total claims costs, reflecting a decrease in the severity of motor vehicle accidents. In alignment with our robust reporting culture, we continue to report and evaluate all minor incidents such as a small dent in a bumper. Despite these efforts, we continue to face challenges achieving year-over-year reductions in our preventable motor vehicle accident rate. We will continue working until we achieve our target of zero motor vehicle accidents. While we have made great progress reducing our higher-severity motor vehicle accidents, we have more work to do to reduce our low-severity incidents, particularly around hitting stationary objects at low speeds. We will continue to work on improving training and awareness in this area, including tools that will help us to improve our safe driving culture. Process Safety Strong safety performance is synonymous with a well-managed company. We integrate safety into all aspects of Williams’ operations, including how we manage our facilities and assets. Williams implements processes and equipment to prevent the uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons and hazardous substances. The Williams Integrated Management System includes a comprehensive set of policies and standards to manage process safety that ranges from pre-startup safety review policies to process hazard analysis requirements. To create a uniform approach to conducting safety reviews, we implemented a standardized management of change and pre-startup safety review software across the organization that more thoroughly evaluates and tracks modifications to our assets. We design and operate our facilities to proactively manage process safety risks while complying with all applicable regulations and industry standards. We follow the American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 to track process safety occurrences. In 2019, we experienced 16 process safety Tier 1 events. We are always working to reduce this number to zero. We set a goal to decrease process safety incidents by 15% in 2019, and successfully achieved a 28% reduction. We set a new goal to decrease process safety incidents by an additional 10% in 2020. Williams continues to emphasize near-miss identification and reporting, which serves as a leading indicator of process safety hazard recognition. As a result, we are able to better investigate potential incidents and mitigate actual incidents before they occur. In 2019, we developed a key performance indicator dashboard for process safety incidents to further assess our safety performance and identify areas for improvement. We share lessons learned across the company to promote best practices. Operations Technician Gerald Hawkins and Operations Supervisor Jeremie Detling at Williams’ Oak Grove processing plant in Moundsville, West Virginia. Pipeline & Mechanical Integrity Pipeline Integrity We operate more than 30,000 miles of pipeline systems to deliver the products the United States depends on for heating, cooking and electricity. All pipelines are thoroughly tested and inspected to rigorous standards when installed to ensure a baseline of high integrity, reliability and safety. Our assets must be safe and reliable to serve our customers and communities and to generate value for our shareholders. We develop and maintain Integrity Management Plans for our transmission pipeline systems that provide a structured approach for continually evaluating risks and threats to safe and reliable operations. We implement controls to prevent or mitigate the effects of potential incidents. We use Integrity Assessments of pipelines and repairs of identified defects as one key element of maintaining pipeline integrity, reliability and safety. As of 2019, Williams has completed Integrity Assessments and all needed repairs on 92% of our transmission pipelines. Williams experienced 10 reportable pipeline incidents in 2019, 40% of which were significant. Williams continuously monitors pipelines for flow, pressure, temperature and other factors through our dedicated control centers, which include automated system response to potential leak conditions. Technologies such as infrared, acoustic and lasers also facilitate leak detection. Williams continues to use Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) technology to monitor and respond to changing conditions in areas subject to landslides that could adversely affect pipelines. We also employ unmanned aerial vehicles to monitor pipelines for right-of-way activities that need investigation or response. We train pipeline control specialists on how to recognize abnormal conditions that could be the result of a pipeline leak and how to respond accordingly. Williams completes aerial patrols at intervals prescribed by pipeline regulations and, in certain areas of more dense population, we complete the patrols more frequently than required. We also run cleaning pigs and use in-line inspection tools when needed for flow assurance and to manage the threat of internal and external corrosion. We coat all new pipelines with modern coating systems that act as the primary barrier to corrosion. In addition, we apply cathodic protection as a second line of defense to prevent corrosion. Williams conducts an annual performance evaluation to assess all elements of the integrity programs, pinpoint any opportunities for improvement and develop action items to track completion of recommended improvements. As part of this process, in 2019, Williams identified additional metrics to add to our annual program evaluation, including tracking the number of pipeline assessments that required no remediation and those that required no in-field evaluations. Williams’ Pipeline Integrity Program In addition, Williams is in the process of implementing a comprehensive pipeline safety management system (PSMS) in accordance with the American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 1173. Our PSMS journey began in 2017 and will be fully implemented by 2022. PSMS is an elective program based on the Plan-Do-Check-Act philosophy of continuous improvement, and something Williams believes will have a measurable positive impact on our safety performance. Once fully implemented, Williams’ PSMS will integrate several existing safety-related systems and processes, and will help identify and mitigate gaps that could result in incidents if left unchecked. Williams conducts annual internal audits of our pipeline integrity initiatives along with external, third-party audits at least every three years. Williams completed an external, third-party audit of our liquid integrity management procedures in 2019. We also initiated a risk assessment improvement project for pipeline risk analysis to improve the reliability of our risk assessment results and facilitate better decision making to identify and prioritize improvements. We work to remain in compliance with all applicable laws related to our pipelines. In 2019, we experienced $1.9 million in monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with federal pipeline and storage regulations. Mechanical Integrity Williams operates gathering and processing facilities across the continental United States. Maintaining the integrity of these facilities is critical to safeguarding our employees, contractors and the public, while ensuring the continued safe operation of those facilities. The mechanical integrity requirements and guidelines, captured in the Williams Integrated Management System, outline company expectations for managing mechanical integrity quality assurance, data management and midstream inspections. Williams conducts assessments and visual inspections of facilities on an interval-based schedule using a corrosion-based analytical process, including special emphasis assessments at higher-risk areas. When new equipment is installed, inspections are performed prior to startup or asset commissioning to establish a mechanical integrity assessment baseline. All historical design, inspection and testing information is compiled into a condition monitoring database for accurate inspection and data analysis. Through this process, Williams is able to identify assets that require comprehensive engineering assessments for continued safe operations. As part of the overall Quality Assurance process, Williams audits integrity plans and procedures annually to reflect improvements from external and internal reviews and lessons learned through program implementation and participation in industry trade association committees. Additionally, Williams implements program maintenance through a continuous audit process that assists in annual planning. Emergency Preparedness& Public Safety Emergency Preparedness As a responsible member of the communities where we operate, Williams has robust processes in place to prepare for and appropriately respond to a wide range of emergency situations. Our goal is to protect Williams’ workforce and the communities surrounding our operations. The Williams Integrated Management System includes company-wide requirements for implementing midstream and pipeline emergency response procedures. Operating managers are responsible for establishing site-specific emergency plans at our facilities. We evaluate emergency plans annually to confirm the required notification lists, evacuation processes and operating requirements are in place. In 2019, Williams reviewed 33 emergency response plans. Williams provides employees with annual safety drills and training exercises to prepare for a diverse set of emergencies, including accidental releases and security-related incidents. For example, Williams conducted an emergency response training in South Carolina in 2019 to review communication processes, practice our Incident Management System procedures and gain experience applying Williams’ Emergency Plan and Preparedness Manual. More than 50 participants from 13 external organizations participated in the exercise. We regularly engage with firefighters, emergency management officials, law enforcement officers, public officials and planning agencies to review emergency response procedures and conduct emergency response drills. Williams requires emergency responders to be included in relevant training exercises and drills at least every three years. We provide instructor-led training courses and web-based training programs to emergency responders through our online portal. We also conduct outreach efforts with emergency responders, including in-person meetings, facility tours and informational mailers. In 2019, Williams sent more than 19,900 public awareness mailers to emergency response agencies. If an emergency incident does occur, we fully investigate the cause to prevent future occurrences. Our remediation management process establishes a standard method for managing post-emergency responses at company sites. By maintaining updated notification lists, Williams can coordinate with local emergency response organizations to effectively communicate necessary information to local communities. We care greatly about the well-being of the communities where we operate, especially during times of emergency. Through our corporate giving channels, Williams provides financial contributions to support local emergency response teams. In 2019, we collaborated with the Shoshone Paiute Duck Valley Reservation Fire Department to help maintain equipment and replace aging gear. We also make charitable investments to employees and communities affected by natural disasters. Our disaster relief program provides short-term assistance to employees experiencing severe financial need due to a disaster. For more information on community giving, see page 50. Public Safety Engagement with local stakeholders helps us prevent potential safety incidents and reduce third-party damage to pipelines. Williams has ongoing procedures in place to proactively educate the public on pipeline safety. These processes integrate best practices from the Common Ground Alliance, a member-driven association committed to preventing damage to underground infrastructure. Williams did not experience any Department of Transportation reportable releases from third-party damages in 2019. One of the greatest challenges to maintaining safe pipeline operations is accidental damage caused by excavation, construction, farming activities and homeowner maintenance. We design public awareness programs to enhance safety by increasing knowledge of pipeline locations and safety prevention measures. Williams sends an annual public awareness mailer to surrounding landowners and community members detailing the importance of calling “811” at least three days before the start of any digging project so underground utilities can mark their lines. We also send a mailer to farming and ranching communities within 10 miles of our pipelines. We always encourage individuals to contact one of our 24-hour control centers to report abnormal conditions or an emergency at Williams’ pipelines and facilities. Emergency officials, excavators and public officials receive our baseline mailer annually while affected public entities, including schools and farms, receive our baseline mailer biannually. Additionally, we send supplemental mailers frequently depending on the area affected and the types of assets in the area. Williams’ public awareness and damage prevention steering committee oversees the communication and implementation of public awareness and damage prevention initiatives. Our online prevention toolkit provides field personnel with tools, resources and technologies for identifying and preventing line strikes. We update the toolkit regularly as new best practices, lessons learned, or improved tools and technologies become available. In 2019, Williams created a dashboard that communicates trends in near-miss and line-strike data across the company and helps drive consistency in reporting. Budget and Administration Supervisor Quincy Jones, Operations Manager Ben Kittka and Environmental Specialist Amy Louwers in Canton, Ohio. Workforce Health & Development GRI 102-41; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 403-3; 403-6; 404-1; 404-3; 405-1 Employee Health & Wellness Our employees are our most valued resource and the driving force behind our reputation as a safe, reliable company that does the right thing, every time. Cultivating a healthy work environment aligns with our Core Values, increases productivity and promotes long-term value creation. We offer comprehensive programs and services to support the health and wellness of employees during and after work, including robust medical plan benefits, disease management programs and wellness coaching. These benefits are available to most employees regardless of location. Our Williams Way to Wellness program is a key component of our employee total rewards package. The program is available to employees as well as eligible spouses and domestic partners. As part of the program, we provide annual biometric health screenings and well-being assessments to employees with a focus on assessing overall health and early identification of any possible medical risks. More than 50% of registered employees completed health screenings in 2019, resulting in discounts and incentives on healthcare benefits. The Way to Wellness program also works to gamify healthy living through annual employee initiatives from physical activity to financial planning. For example, we offer a Real Appeal weight-loss program at no cost to eligible employees, spouses, domestic partners and dependents enrolled in Williams’ medical plan. In total, the more than 550 Real Appeal program participants lost a combined 5,173 pounds in 2019. The Williams medical plan has experienced a 3% annual cost trend since 2010, enabling monthly medical premiums to remain flat for five of the past seven years. We are dedicated to continuously improving health and wellness practices at Williams. We evaluate participation and engagement in existing programs to determine design enhancements and inform communications efforts. We integrate our employee health and wellness activities with our employee safety efforts to leverage the natural synergies between employee health and safety. For information about personnel safety, see page 32. Employee Attraction & Retention Working at Williams isn’t just a job, it’s an opportunity to impact the quality of people’s lives every day by safely delivering products that fuel the clean energy economy. Williams employs more than 4,800 people across the United States. We work to attract and retain the best talent by creating an environment where employees feel fulfilled and supported in their personal and professional development. Our efforts enabled Williams to maintain a low voluntary turnover rate of 6.1% in 2019. As our company grows, we remain focused on creating a safe, inclusive workplace where employees feel valued and heard. We conduct employee engagement surveys to identify Williams’ strengths and weaknesses from our employees’ perspectives. The survey results help us evaluate and continuously improve our approach to employee engagement. Talent Recruitment Attracting the best talent in the industry is critical to driving Williams’ strategic and operational business results. We leverage various recruiting strategies to hire candidates aligned with our business needs. Our primary recruitment platforms include external job boards and our Williams Careers site. We also offer a Talent Scout Incentive program to broaden Williams’ candidate pool through employee referrals. Williams partners with universities and technical schools in the United States to recruit for entry-level opportunities and paid internships. In 2019, we received more than 1,000 applicants for our summer internship program designed to provide meaningful work and resources to individuals preparing for entry-level disciplines. Williams’ 2019 intern class included 46 individuals. Veterans gain exceptional experience and rigorous technical training through the military, making them ideal candidates for positions at Williams. These skills directly align with our need for adaptability, quick learning, accountability and effective project execution. We strategically recruit military veterans through virtual career fairs, targeted social media campaigns, virtual information sessions and direct partnerships. We recruit veterans for positions at all levels in the organization. Williams sponsors the Disabled America Veterans Guide to Hiring and Retaining Veterans with Disabilities. Based on proven best practices for hiring and retaining veterans, the guide is a map to empower employers to become thought leaders in the veteran employment space. More than 7% of Williams employees in 2019 were veterans. In addition to military leave, Williams provides pay offset by any military pay, and benefits, for up to 12 months of military leave. In 2019, more than 7% of Williams employees were veterans. We value our employees and want to provide internal opportunities for development. When hiring for a position, we also look internally to identify potential candidates. Williams’ internal human resources system allows employees to view and apply to all currently posted requisitions. We fill approximately 30% of all open positions from within. Employee Benefits Our employees are our greatest asset and we offer them a leading benefits package. Williams provides a comprehensive total rewards program that includes base salary, an all-employee Annual Incentive program, retirement benefits and a health and wellness program. Our benefits program exceeds the benchmarks for both our segment of the industry and the energy industry as a whole. Williams provides employees with company-paid life insurance, disability coverage and paid parental leave for both birth and non-birth parents. Additionally, more than 95% of Williams’ employees are saving for retirement through our 401(k) plan. Employees receive company-paid retirement benefits regardless of their personal decision to save in our 401(k) plan or not. We want to recognize and reward our employees who play a critical role in our company’s success. Williams’ discretionary Annual Incentive program is an important component of our total employee rewards offering. This program offers incentives based on company-wide performance, individual performance and select environmental and safety metrics to drive business results, enhance collaboration and motivate employees. We believe that, by having a stake in the success of the company, employees will find more opportunities to make Williams stronger. To that end, Williams provides an employee stock purchase plan to purchase company stock at a 15% discount. As of 2019, 42% of employees elected to participate in the program. Organized labor serves as an important voice advocating for the necessary expansion of domestic energy infrastructure. We have strong relationships with unions in many of our pipeline areas. Williams recognizes the right of employees under the National Labor Relations Act to, among other things, organize, form, join or assist unions and to engage in protected, concerted activities. Williams is dedicated to creating a workplace that respects and values all employees and maintains an environment of open and direct communication. We strive to develop mutually rewarding relationships with our employees through fairness, trust and integrity. Because we encourage a direct partnership with our employees, we do not believe in the need for an outside group to speak on their behalf. In 2019, none of Williams’ employees were represented under collective bargaining agreements. Employee Development We recognize our people for their contributions to our success and provide them with a work environment where their careers thrive. Williams offers robust corporate and technical training programs coupled with strong employee engagement to support the professional development of our employees and the long-term value of our business. Williams provides training opportunities that reflect an employee’s position, specific responsibilities and the local regulatory environment. On average, Williams’ employees completed 36 hours of compliance and technical training in 2019, in addition to leadership and development training that is not tracked through our learning management system. Field employees typically require more training than office-based personnel due to the nature of the job requirements. We encourage employees to engage in open dialogue regarding their professional development through ongoing, one-on-one meetings with supervisors and during formal performance reviews. Performance is measured through the achieved results associated with attaining annual business goals, operational and functional area strategies and personal development plans. Additionally, we evaluate observable skills and behaviors based on our defined competencies that contribute to workplace effectiveness and career success. We are always seeking new opportunities to improve our training programs. In 2019, we continued to enhance our front-line operations training programs with supplemental instructor-led courses, web-based courses and targeted on-the-job training to enrich specific technical skills. We are also in the process of implementing a focused development program for our project management teams in 2020 to deliver foundational information and skills-based knowledge. 2019 Employee Training Data Total Workforce  36.5  Office Personnel  14.0  Field Personnel  52.3  Williams provides development opportunities for all employees, from recent graduates to senior leadership. Our Early Career Professional Development program enables post-undergraduate employees to participate in an intensive, three-year rotational or non-rotational program to build technical expertise. And, our baseline leadership programs help support current leaders by providing tools and training resources to promote success in their roles. 100% of employees received a performance assessment in 2019 and nearly 13% of our employees received a promotion. In 2019, we piloted a learning and development café event to provide Tulsa-based employees an opportunity to hear about development opportunities from company leaders, including Williams’ senior vice president and chief human resources officer. WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Williams engages in talent review and succession planning to assess our organizational capability and guarantee ongoing talent capacity. Our Talking Talent program enables us to evaluate talent across the company and calibrate accordingly. Additionally, our Talking Development program provides the opportunity for managers to think strategically about the broader spectrum of development needs and identify themes. Aligning these themes to the strategic priorities of the organization helps ensure that succession and development plans support the growth of individuals and the business. As part of our succession analysis, we look at the demographics of our potential successor pool. We utilize career transition services to support transitioning individuals through a combination of career coaching, networking, industry-specific job leads, reskilling and upskilling. Seven Core Competencies for Success In support of Williams’ mission, we work to develop a knowledgeable and skilled workforce. We introduced seven core competencies in 2019 that align with our Core Values and reflect the key to success for all Williams employees. By demonstrating these qualities during everyday functions, employees can live out our Core Values and positively contribute to the company culture. The core competencies help describe what is expected from employees, what employees can do to strengthen performance and the key focus areas for professional development at Williams. The seven core competencies also provide employees with insight into the skills needed to advance to higher-level positions. CUSTOMER FOCUS ENSURES ACCOUNTABILITY ACTION ORIENTED DRIVES RESULTS COLLABORATES COMMUNICATES EFFECTIVELY INSTILLS TRUST Diversity & Inclusion We want all employees to feel respected and valued for their contributions. Williams considers diverse perspectives and backgrounds as a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Through employee education programs and a strong focus on leadership accountability, we are working to embed diversity and inclusion in every part of our organization. Williams has several policies that reinforce our commitment to an inclusive workplace. Our Code of Business Conduct includes expectations for creating a positive work environment. Williams’ Equal Employment Opportunity Policy outlines our approach to providing equal employment and advancement opportunities for all. Our Prohibiting Workplace Discrimination and Harassment Policy defines our commitment to preventing workplace discrimination and harassment. Williams communicates diversity-related policies to employees through our internal intranet site, company-wide communications and team meetings. Diversity and inclusion fosters innovation and collaboration, brings out the best in our people and drives business success. We believe that every employee contributes to building an inclusive culture. In 2019, all employees completed a new sexual harassment training to promote a workplace of dignity and respect that is free from harassment. We endorse business resource groups at Williams to support networking and professional development opportunities for veterans, women and LGBTQ employees. These groups function in a flexible and responsive way to the changing needs of our organization and our employees. In 2019, Williams’ vice president-general manager of Rockies gathering and processing received the Randy Barnard Leave the Ladder Down Award. This award honors those who serve as a champion of inclusion and reinforce Williams’ inclusive culture. The Leave the Ladder Down Award program began in 2008 as a way to recognize leaders who model the Williams Way — treating employees, customers, business partners, shareholders and the communities we serve with respect and dignity. We strive for diverse representation at all levels through our talent management practices and employee development programs. We are committed to helping all employees elevate into leadership positions in our company by creating a more equitable playing field. We emphasize diversity and inclusion during all development conversations including our Talking Talent Development programs and succession planning initiatives. Through strategic partnerships with organizations such as Catalyst and Women’s Energy Network, we are accelerating leadership development and expanding opportunities for diverse employees. In 2019, female or ethnically diverse employees represented nearly 26% of management roles at Williams. In 2019, Williams participated in Women in the Workplace, a multi-year joint research effort led by McKinsey & Company to conduct the largest comprehensive study of the state of women in corporate America. Williams was one of the 329 participating companies from a variety of industries. As part of this effort, Williams employees were surveyed on their workplace experiences related to topics including gender biases and equal opportunity. The results of the study provide targeted recommendations on how to improve female representation at all levels in the workplace. Commercial Contract Analyst Robin Valsin, Business Development Analyst Stephanie Adams and Financial Analyst Braden Koogler at our Houston office. Williams works to cast a wide net of potential employees to make sure we are considering all qualified applicants. We recruit diverse talent through digital platforms and direct outreach. We also partner with universities and technical schools to support education and internship opportunities for diverse students. Examples include our partnership with the University of Oklahoma Multicultural Engineering program and participation in the Oklahoma State University Diversity Breakfast. Williams’ 2019 internship program consisted of 34% female and 30% ethnically diverse employees. Diversity Data Williams received a Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index rating of 90 out of 100 in 2020. Our Early Career Professional Development program provides opportunities for high-performing and high-potential college graduates to obtain full-time, entry-level positions at Williams. The program consistently achieves strong representation across diversity dimensions, helping build a robust pipeline of future talent. For more information on talent attraction at Williams, see page 40. Number of Permanent Employees at Year End 5,460 5,337 4,793 Percent Men 79 79 80 Percent of Men in Technical and Support Roles 52 50 53 Percent of Men in Professional and Managerial Roles 48 50 47 Percent Women 21 21 20 Percent Women in Technical and Support Roles 35 31 29 Percent Women in Professional and Managerial Roles 65 69 71 Percent Ethnic Diversity 16 15 15 Percent Ethnic Diversity in Technical and Support Roles 47 41 40 Percent Ethnic Diversity in Professional and Managerial Roles 53 59 60 Percent of Management Roles Held by a Diverse Population 23 27 26 Percent Men 85 84 84 Percent Women 15 16 16 From left (front row): President and CEO Alan Armstrong, Contract Analyst Ambar Malik, Director of Market Intelligence and Strategy Jaclyn Presnal, Manager of Commercial Development Perrin Boone, Director of Financial Planning and Analysis Teresa Palacios, SVP of Corporate Strategic Development Chad Zamarin, Supervisor of Information Technology Dana Goe, and SVP and General Counsel Lane Wilson. From left (back row): Director of Projects GeJuan Cole, SVP and CFO John Chandler, Coordinator of Maintenance Seth Bandurraga, SVP and CHRO Debbie Cowan, and Director of Operations Briana Schulze. Members not pictured: EVP and Chief Operating Officer Micheal Dunn, Director of Operations Stephen Furbacher, Manager of Projects Missie Hills and Vice President of Rockies Gathering & Processing Candyce Fly Lee. WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Diversity & Inclusion Council An inclusive culture allows us to attract, develop and retain high-performing employees who are passionate about making Williams a great place to work for all. One part of the overall strategy to enhance our inclusive culture is the creation of a Diversity and Inclusion Council. The council, chaired by our chief executive officer, includes members of the executive officer team, organizational and operational leaders, and individual employees selected via a self-nomination process. The purpose of the Diversity and Inclusion Council is to promote policies, practices and procedures that support the growth of a high-performing workforce where all individuals can achieve their full potential. The council serves as the governing body over enterprise diversity and inclusion initiatives. It’s our goal to provide a workplace where employees are comfortable bringing their authentic selves to work each day. I’m really proud of Williams’ continued focus promoting all aspects of diversity, inclusion and acceptance. DEBBIE COWAN, CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER AND MEMBER OF THE WILLIAMS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION COUNCIL Community Engagement GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 411-1 Community Relations We strive to sustain positive relationships with the communities where we operate so we can serve as a good neighbor. Our employees work and live in the communities where we operate, so we take great pride in developing strong community relationships. Williams actively engages with a variety of stakeholders, from local business owners and community leaders to public officials and nongovernmental organizations. We employ multiple communication channels to foster open dialogue, including digital platforms, in-person meetings, newsletters and open houses. Our goal is to engage stakeholders throughout the lifecycle of our projects and operations. Williams upholds a diligent process for receiving, analyzing and responding to community concerns, including a dedicated email address to manage local concerns. Williams employs the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (FERC) voluntary pre-filing process to engage affected stakeholders prior to the submittal of a formal project certificate application. Activities include public meetings and consultations with elected officials, community leaders and affected landowners. We followed this process for all FERC projects in 2019. Williams’ community and project outreach team serves as the central contact point for stakeholder engagement efforts related to pipeline projects. The team develops and maintains a project-specific public participation plan for major projects. The plans are implemented using our Public Outreach Strategy Guide, which formally outlines Williams’ approach to community engagement and consultation. The guide emphasizes the importance of early contact, continual communication and being flexible whenever possible. Executive oversight of community engagement falls within the responsibility of our vice president of communications and corporate social responsibility, and the vice president of government affairs and public outreach. In 2019, we participated in more than 100 stakeholder engagements with local communities, including 50 community events, three open houses, 40 meetings with Native American tribes, seven meetings with chambers of commerce and 32 meetings with county commissioners. We are in the early stages of deploying a new stakeholder management system that will enable Williams to better track interactions with stakeholders, log meeting information and map relevant stakeholders for each of our projects. Our stakeholder engagement initiatives include efforts to help educate community members on Williams’ operations. For example, Williams participated in a cross-industry energy learning program in the northeast United States. Members of the program deployed an in-person learning module that provided hundreds of fifth-grade students at more than 12 schools the opportunity to learn about energy while meeting curriculum requirements. Landowner Relations To operate our critical energy infrastructure systems that span 26 states, we must establish permanent easements across private land. It is critically important to maintain successful partnerships with landowners who grant us this privilege. We collaborate with more than 100,000 landowners throughout the United States. We strive to treat landowners fairly by providing them reasonable financial compensation, protecting and restoring their land, and respectfully operating on their property. By building landowner relationships based on mutual trust, Williams is able to deliver value to our investors and clean energy to the people who rely on it. I enjoy our partnership with Williams in the Wamsutter field. The working relationship we have with Williams has become more than a business relationship, and even more than being neighbors. I would call it a friendship. WARREN ADAMS, CATTLE RANCHER IN WYOMING Williams directly and regularly engages with our landowner partners through email, phone calls, open houses and in-person meetings. We abide by the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America’s Commitment to Landowners, a set of recommended behaviors that member companies agree to follow when engaging landowners. We also adhere to applicable state regulations such as the Texas Landowner Bill of Rights. For existing partnerships, we conduct an annual checkup of our assets on landowner properties to confirm that our infrastructure continues to operate safely and unobtrusively. We have ongoing communications with landowners to expeditiously resolve concerns and complaints. For instance, in 2019, the Williams outreach and land team assisted a landowner in Pennsylvania affected by flooding by providing the resources needed to reconstruct a bridge destroyed by the floodwater. This effort was an act of goodwill based on Williams’ relationship with the landowner through ongoing outreach. For proposed pipeline projects, we apply a standardized approach for engaging potentially affected landowners early in the process. Our focus on early engagement enables us to explain the project, obtain permission to survey the land and conduct a formal negotiation process. Williams recognizes that landowners can have concerns related to our projects, including apprehension related to safety, property value and construction impacts. We encourage landowners to ask questions, voice concerns and communicate their preferences so we can create mutually beneficial solutions. Throughout the project planning process, Williams proactively circulates relevant project information to landowners, including company policies, frequently asked questions and steps for acquiring rights of way. For projects certified by the FERC, Williams is required to notify landowners up to half a mile from the proposed pipeline route. We distribute a brochure developed by the FERC that describes what to expect if a proposed project runs through a landowner’s property. We work to minimize the impact on communities by locating the pipeline along existing rights of way, roadways or other utility corridors. Our corporate philosophy is to introduce eminent domain only as a last resort. We try to reroute when possible to avoid property owners who do not want to work with us. For projects certified by the FERC, we use a federal eminent domain process. As part of this process, Williams maintains a formal landowner complaint resolution procedure to identify concerns and determine an appropriate resolution in a timely manner. Indigenous Peoples Respect for different cultures, traditions and beliefs is ingrained in our company culture. We value our partnerships with Native American tribes and respect the tribal sovereignty of the federally recognized Native American tribes in the United States. Within Williams’ areas of operations, there are 143 federally recognized Native American tribes. In 2019, we held 40 meetings with Native American tribes in our areas of operation to support open communication and seek mutually beneficial outcomes. As part of our commitment to building positive relationships with Native American tribes, we provide meaningful financial contributions to tribal communities. As a company with interstate natural gas pipelines regulated by the FERC, we adhere to Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act. The Act requires consultation on all activities that may affect property of cultural or religious significance to tribes. As part of Section 106, tribes must have a reasonable opportunity to identify concerns about affected properties and to advise Williams on the identification and evaluation of these properties. Williams’ public outreach team has primary responsibility for tribal outreach efforts. We regularly identify opportunities to incorporate feedback from Native American tribes into our project planning. For example, as part of the permit requirements for the North Seattle lateral upgrade project in Washington, Williams agreed to retain all large, woody material from trees felled within 200 feet of all fish-bearing streams along the project right of way. This was a specific request from the Muckleshoot Tribe to improve fish habitat. The modification required a significant amount of planning coordination. Our Human Rights Policy and Statement outlines our commitment to respect human rights and avoid complicity in human rights abuses. The statement includes respecting the rights of indigenous peoples. In 2019, Williams had no incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples. We donated to several organizations in 2019, including the IllumiNative initiative to support increased education about native peoples in North America, and the Coosawattee Foundation, Inc., to heighten public awareness of the importance of archaeological resources. We also joined a community-led committee at Indian Health Care Resource Center to gain awareness of the needs of the Native American community in our headquarters city. We also supported the Center’s first Native American Youth Summit with one of our engineers participating on a science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education panel and sponsored Native American Day in Tulsa. For more information on community giving at Williams, see page 50. WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Bluestem Pipeline Tribal Outreach In 2019, Williams began laying the groundwork for the Bluestem Pipeline expansion project that will provide a critical connection to allow Williams to transport natural gas liquids from Conway, Kansas, to Kingfisher, Oklahoma. We have partnered with Targa Resources, which will transport the natural gas liquids to growing markets in Mont Belvieu, Texas. As part of the project planning efforts, Williams’ outreach team identified the need for early engagement with Native American tribes in Kansas and Oklahoma. The outreach team sent a letter to the Tribal Historic Preservation Officer of tribes in the potentially affected areas to provide information on the expansion project. The team also reached out to interested tribes to develop relationships, learn more about the interests of each tribe and discuss the proposed pipeline study area. In total, Williams engaged with 15 tribes in face-to-face meetings, either with a representative group from the tribe or with the governing council of the tribe. This direct engagement helped build trust with the tribes and created an opportunity to identify areas of concern early in the process. Local Economic Development In addition to playing a critical role in a clean energy economy, the abundant supply of natural gas in the United States also supports domestic energy independence. By harnessing this local resource, we can help reduce the country’s demand for foreign energy sources, spur local economic development and positively influence global economies. For example, in 2019, Williams completed the Gateway expansion project — approximately 11 months ahead of schedule — to meet growing demand for clean energy in New Jersey. The project provides the transportation services needed to meet the daily home heating, hot water and cooking needs of an estimated 280,000 homes. The expansion project also guarantees sufficient access to reliable, affordable natural gas to support continued economic growth in the region. Williams supports economic development in the areas where we operate by creating jobs, investing in civic improvements and working with local service providers. We identify opportunities to improve local economic development through partnerships with local chambers, economic development groups and public officials. Williams has a long-standing practice of assessing local talent first for all available job positions. Our efforts to hire locally include career fairs, employee referral programs and hiring bonuses in remote areas. We also support technical schools, colleges and universities through partnerships and scholarships to develop a pool of future candidates. We provide locally hired individuals with opportunities to develop technical and leadership skills that will benefit them throughout their careers. As one of the larger employers in many smaller communities, we are pleased to offer job opportunities to local talent to allow them to stay and prosper in the communities they call home. In 2019, Williams supported the Newark Workforce Development Board’s A.D.E.P.T. Fund in Trenton, New Jersey, to assist with workforce development in the region. The fund provides customized training and career pathways in construction trades and advanced manufacturing for long-term, unemployed workers and residents with significant barriers to employment. Program participants receive at least 80 hours of introductory craft skills training. Upon completion, participants obtain industry-certified credentials for introductory crafts skills training, qualifying them for entry-level employment in the construction industry. Williams provides local infrastructure investments tailored to address community-specific needs to show our support and commitment to communities. Examples include medical centers, parks, libraries and sports complexes. We continually seek input from local leaders and other economic development entities to better understand the infrastructure needs of local communities. In addition to civic infrastructure improvements, Williams brings economic benefits to local governments through taxes. In 2019, we spent nearly $168 million in property taxes across our locations. We have contributed more than $240 million in total Employer Federal Insurance Contribution Act taxes over the past five years. WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Global Economic Development Just as natural gas helps advance economic development in the United States, increased access to natural gas products can positively affect the global economy. According to The World Bank, nearly half the world lives on less than $5.50 a day. Expanding access to the energy needed to fuel modern life translates to improved living standards. Around the world, people are being lifted out of poverty and the middle class is growing like never before. As this growth accelerates, so does the demand for modern amenities such as hot water and cooking appliances. Natural gas can help meet this growing demand and improve the quality of life for millions of people. Increased access to natural gas in developing countries can also benefit human health. An estimated 3 billion people still cook and heat their homes using open fires fueled by polluting kerosene, biomass and coal. Each year, more than 4 million people die from illness attributable to household air pollution. Natural gas is an affordable, clean and reliable source of energy for cooking and heating. Community Giving Williams is dedicated to strengthening the communities where we operate through involvement with and support for community activities. The Williams Foundation helps guide our approach to community giving. The Foundation board collaborates with executive leaders and our corporate social responsibility team to develop and approve budgets for supporting specific charitable programs. The Williams Foundation bylaws and charitable contributions standards outline our giving process and safeguard the integrity of our contributions. Charitable Contributions We focus our community giving on initiatives that help energize employees, develop targeted skills and enhance business execution. In 2019, we contributed more than $9 million to nearly 2,000 organizations through our many channels for community giving, including cash contributions, in-kind donations and matching programs. Involvement in the communities where our employees live and work is at the heart of Williams. We support several methods of charitable giving aimed at making a difference in local communities through investments in the environment, education, safety, arts and human health. Williams’ operating area leaders help identify community investments that best support the specific needs of each community. In 2019, we continued to focus on efforts related to education. We are committed to helping our local schools prepare the next generation of employees, particularly in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). We contributed $887,633 in support of STEM education in 2019. For example, we supported the STEM Like ME! program in Everett, Washington, which empowers teachers to introduce STEM professionals in the classroom setting, engaging and inspiring students by expanding awareness about STEM industry opportunities. United Way Services 2019 Community Giving by Program Area Health & Human Services Arts, Culture Stewardship & Humanities Education Civic Betterment WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHT Supporting United Way Our partnership with United Way is one of the many ways we take a leadership role in driving sustainable change through collaboration with strong community partners. In 2019, we continued our company-wide efforts to support United Way by contributing to more than 180 local area United Way agencies. Employees, board members and retirees receive a dollar-for-dollar match of their contributions up to $25,000 to United Ways in areas of Williams operations. For example, in 2019, Williams provided $25,000 to the Newark Water Fund established by United Way of Essex and West Hudson. The funds were used to purchase bottled water for Newark residents when the city’s water supply contained high lead levels. We are also proud to announce that 2019 also marks the 30th consecutive year that Williams raised more than $1 million for the Tulsa Area United Way. As one of 125 Global Corporate Leadership companies, our partnership with United Way helps keep us tightly woven into the fabric of communities across the United States. We take a long-term view and work hard to maintain our reputation as an industry standout and community leader. Strengthening our hometowns through active employee involvement and company investments — while providing clean energy — is at the heart of what we do. LAURA CREEKMUR, VICE PRESIDENT, COMMUNICATIONS AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY; PRESIDENT OF THE WILLIAMS FOUNDATION A valued member of the national STEM Funders Network and an active ally of the Tulsa Regional STEM Alliance, Williams exemplifies why cross-sector partnership is so critical. Through their support in aligning great local work with national efforts to improve STEM learning experiences for youth, they are championing the next generation of STEM workers, thinkers and innovators. Williams stands tall both as a great leader within the local community and among corporate foundations. DR. KATHERINE BIHR, TGR FOUNDATION, A TIGER WOODS CHARITY; 2019 CHAIR, STEM FUNDERS NETWORK Employee Participation Williams believes in generously giving both time and resources to help make a difference. We support volunteer efforts by granting employees time off to volunteer with charitable organizations. Across the country, our employees serve on nonprofit boards and as mentors, coaches, committee members and volunteer firefighters. In 2019, Williams employees volunteered 32,968 hours with charitable organizations, representing more than $838,000 in value. To help employees maximize employee contributions to local communities, we fund employee-driven charitable giving programs, including our homegrown giving and matching gifts programs. Our homegrown giving program enables employees to support the unique needs of their local communities through grants designed to support eligible, nonprofit organizations. Williams’ matching gifts program annually matches contributions to eligible organizations up to $10,000 per employee or board member and up to $5,000 per retiree. Supply Chain Management GRI 102-9; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 Williams worked with more than 3,400 suppliers across the United States in 2019 to procure the materials, goods and services needed to support our daily operations. Our suppliers directly impact the financial success of our operations, influencing our ability to deliver value to our customers and investors and local communities alike. For that reason, it is imperative that we develop relationships with suppliers that share our commitment to operational excellence and uphold our Core Values. Williams’ standard contractor language outlines our supplier expectations. Suppliers are obligated to comply with Williams’ health and safety requirements, including the policies set forth in our Contractor Safety Handbook. When surveying the market for potential suppliers, we only procure from qualified organizations that meet our safety, compliance and credit requirements. We are in the process of implementing a new supplier qualification process that will enhance how we capture data and enable us to incorporate additional environmental and social criteria as part of the supplier grading process. For existing suppliers, Williams uses a supplier relationship management process to segment suppliers and develop appropriate management strategies. Through the process, we can identify Tier 1 suppliers with the highest spending, strategic value and potential risks. Tier 1 suppliers represent the top 80% of total spending. We evaluate our Tier 1 suppliers to confirm compliance with company policies and regulatory requirements. Suppliers not meeting our expectations may be subject to contractual remedies, including termination. In 2019, we realigned our organizational structure to allow for better oversight and influence on spending with environmentally and socially conscious suppliers and contractors. As part of this initiative, we identified opportunities to create policies that standardize and embed environmental, social and governance criteria into our procurement process. Williams is currently developing these policies, and we expect a company-wide rollout of the new policies in 2020. We make efforts to hire local suppliers to promote economic development in our areas of operation. Our ability to hire locally depends on the availability of appropriately qualified individuals. Additionally, we support suppliers from historically underrepresented groups including women and minorities. In 2021, we will finalize implementation of an enterprise-wide resource planning system that will enhance our process for identifying and collaborating with diverse suppliers. Respecting Human Rights We recognize our responsibility to protect internationally recognized human rights within our own operations and avoid contributing to human rights infringements within our supply chain. Since 1992, Williams has offered the Action Line, a 24/7 toll-free number, which empowers employees and other stakeholders to report concerns, including those related to human rights. Internal procedures are in place for the confidential handling of all concerns made to the Williams Action Line. For more information, see page 57. Our Human Rights Policy and Statement outlines our commitment to respect human rights and avoid complicity in human rights abuses. The statement includes our expectations related to workplace discrimination, diversity and inclusion, workplace conditions and freedom of association. Our commitment applies to everyone involved in Williams’ operations, including employees, officers, contractors, leased workers, suppliers, vendors and customers. In situations where Williams does not have overall control of operations, we will take reasonable steps to confirm that involved parties follow human rights best practices. Williams strives to respect human rights through our supply chain by partnering with suppliers that share our corporate values in the areas of freely chosen employment, working hours, respect in the workplace, wages and benefits, and health and safety. Recognizing our responsibility for greater accountability of our suppliers, we are in the process of developing a Supplier Code of Conduct that will hold our suppliers to the same reasonable level of human rights best practices expected from the Williams workforce. Our goal is to launch the Supplier Code of Conduct in 2020. Pipeline Controller Jerrod Stubblefield and Pipeline System Specialist Marlin Nossman at our controller room in Houston, Texas. 