Protecting People & Strengthening InfrastructureAt Williams, we know that operating safely is vital 
to preserving our long-term business success. As 
we deliver the products that are ultimately used 
to heat homes and generate electricity for millions 
of Americans, we strive to do the right thing, every 
time. We continue to promote a safety-first culture 
and operate our assets in a way that continuously exceeds industry standards. Aligned with our 
Core Values, we operate in a safety-driven manner 
that protects our employees and contractors and safeguards the public, while also protecting our assets.Maintenance Coordinator Anna H. at Pine Needle LNG Storage Facility in North Carolina.Workforce 
Health & SafetyGRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3Personnel SafetyGRI 403-1; 403-2; 403-7; 403-8; 403-9As we responsibly handle 30% of 
the natural gas in the United States, 
we embed safety in everything we 
do. We could not make clean energy happen without our dedicated employees. Williams genuinely cares about our employees; this is the foundation of our safety culture. It is imperative that every employee and contractor return home from work safe and healthy each day. We empower all employees and contractors to 
stop work if they suspect a safety hazard at any Williams location. Our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy provides a framework for integrating safety performance into our core business activities. Every employee and contractor 
is responsible for implementing 
this policy.The environmental, health and safety committee within the board of directors is responsible for governance and oversight regarding environmental, health and safety matters.The Williams Integrated Management System is how we put our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy into action. The management system serves as our company-wide platform to manage and reduce risks in our operations, including safety risks. Senior leadership within each operating area is responsible for implementing the appropriate operating requirements, project standards and site-specific procedures set forth through the Williams Integrated Management System. The system aligns 
with Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration (OSHA) 
and Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) requirements.Employee Training 
& Initiatives GRI 403-5; 403-7Every employee completes safety training designed to promote on-the-job competency. Williams tailors our annual training plan to 
the role of each employee based 
on the varying needs of office, field support and core field employees. We require managers to complete 
a training questionnaire to confirm that direct reports receive appropriate safety and compliance training based on specific roles 
and responsibilities. We have processes in place to assess 
training proficiency, including 
written knowledge checks and performance-based evaluations.We maintain a strong safety culture by identifying, mitigating and communicating physical risks across the company. Williams expects every employee and contractor to report all incidents and near-misses related to personnel and process safety. Our Hazard Recognition Focus project teaches personnel about workplace hazards and how to identify them before an incident occurs. The main types of work-related recordable events we experienced in 2020 included strains, lacerations and COVID-19 transmission. Each week, Williams compiles lessons learned and shares 
them with the entire company to accelerate continuous improvement. We communicate preliminary incident communications for 
both high-potential-severity 
and high-actual-severity incidents within a week to all employees 
to share initial findings and key takeaway messages.Williams regularly recognizes our employees for their efforts and commitment to foster a safe work environment. Our Shifting Gears awards program recognizes employees for identifying and mitigating workplace hazards. 
In 2020, we implemented a field employee-based safety program called the Life Critical Field Improvement program. Supervisors and employees create a safer environment by increasing communication around specific 
work conditions.As a result of our disciplined approach to improve our safety culture and performance, Williams has achieved a 9% reduction in employee recordable injuries since 2017. In 2019, we set a one-year goal to reduce recordable injuries for employees by 10%. We did not meet our goal in 2020, and had a 72% increase in recordable injuries and illness. COVID-19 cases accounted for 22% of our OSHA recordable incidents, and along with hazard awareness, were the primary causes of our recordable incidents. We continue to strive for year-over-year improvement in our safety performance and have set a new goal of a 10% reduction from the previous three-year average in employee recordable injuries for 2021. Continuing to focus our reduction based on a three-year average will continue to drive our long-term journey for incident reduction. Our continuous improvement team has an ongoing responsibility to improve safety performance by evaluating existing processes 
and incorporating lessons learned. Additionally, we take a proactive approach to evaluating our safety culture. Our environmental, health and safety assurance team facilitates safety culture assessments across the company, with a goal to assess each of our 18 franchises by 2023. 
In 2020, we completed six baseline assessments and, in 2021, we plan to complete another six baseline assessments and two reassessments. We will conduct follow-up assessments to ensure attainment 
of improvements in safety culture.In an effort to achieve greater efficiency and increase employee safety, Williams has developed an internal unmanned aerial systems (UAS) program to evaluate and implement drone and remote-sensing technology throughout the enterprise. This technology has helped Williams achieve a higher level of safety by utilizing drone technology to perform aerial inspections of equipment, emergency response, 3D modeling and analysis of geohazards, environmental and permitting inspections of pipeline corridors, and 3D modeling of processing facilities.Because of the success of this program, Williams now has 
12 registered FAA Part 107 Remote Pilots within the company and 
owns/operates more than 15 different UAS with sensors capable of photography, video, photogrammetry and thermal imaging.Motor Vehicle SafetyMotor vehicle safety continues as 
a focus for the energy industry at large, and Williams is dedicated to keeping people safe by preventing accidents involving commercial vehicles. In alignment with our 
robust reporting culture, we continue to report and evaluate all minor incidents such as a small dent in a bumper. We will continue working until we achieve our target of zero motor vehicle accidents.We aim to eliminate preventable motor vehicle accidents through 
a combination of equipment 
updates and employee awareness. We installed telematics units on 
all employee fleet vehicles to track, measure and improve driver safety. We collect metrics on acceleration, cornering, speeding and braking, and share the data with employee leaders. In 2020, we achieved a 
22% reduction in total claims costs, reflecting a decrease in the severity of motor vehicle accidents.While we have made great progress reducing our higher-severity motor vehicle accidents, we have more work to do to reduce our low-severity incidents, particularly around hitting stationary objects at low speeds. 
We continue to face challenges achieving year-over-year reductions in our preventable motor vehicle accident rate. We will continue to work on improving training and awareness in this area, including using tools that will help us to improve our safe driving culture. 
In 2020, we implemented a new driver safety training program. In 2019 we had a preventable motor vehicle accident rate of 2.27, and reduced it to 1.83 in 2020. Though we drove fewer miles overall in 2020, transferring our performance into 
a rate allows us to compare the number of incidents per miles driven.Contractor SafetyOur workers are our most valuable asset. Every day, we aim for zero safety incidents, including third-party suppliers and contractors. Williams actively engages with contractors 
to support a safe work environment. 
Our standard contract language includes expectations for 
contractor and subcontractor 
safety qualifications, performance, competency and safety execution minimum requirements. We hold contractors accountable for satisfying contractual requirements and complying with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards.Williams’ contractor safety management plan helps 
us pre-screen contractors, 
confirm compliance with 
safety guidelines and monitor contractor safety performance.Our safety grading process assesses contractors based on key performance areas including total recordable incident rate, fatalities, citations, drug and alcohol program compliance 
and safety management system compliance. Contractors not meeting our minimum requirements must submit a Contractor Risk Management Plan; Williams’ leadership needs to approve the plan and the contractor must implement improvements to do business with us. As part of our bid evaluation process, we utilize an environmental, health and safety questionnaire on projects over 
$1 million to review the contractor’s safety management system and 
safety leadership maturity.Williams conducts third-party 
safety audits and internal evaluations of our contractors to confirm 
they are meeting both regulatory 
and contractual requirements. 
We track audit action items to closure. Failure to close actions by the due date results in a change of contractor status to “deficient” until actions are completed. Our environmental, health and safety specialists work with our contractors daily to maintain a safe and environmentally responsible 
work environment.We provide a site- and project-specific orientation for all contractors at the start of each project. Williams uses a visitor log system to manage on-site registration and check the status of all contractors entering the site. Prior to mobilization, we review contractor site-specific and environmental, health and safety management plans against regulatory and contractual requirements to integrate contractors throughout the process.For large projects, we conduct four-hour safety leadership workshops for contractors and employees to emphasize the importance of superior safety performance, and provide the 
entire project workforce safety leadership and hazard recognition skills training. As part of our commitment to contractor 
safety, we collect and evaluate contractor safety metrics. We 
expect contractors to report 
all incidents and share lessons 
learned by completing incident investigations. In 2020, our contractor lost-time incident rate 
and total recordable incident rate were 0.11 and 0.54, respectively.While the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic presented a unique challenge around workplace health and safety, we had an industry-leading, rapid response to the pandemic to protect 
our employees. We successfully met the health and safety challenge COVID-19 presented, and continue to be committed to a safety culture that delivers top-tier safety performance. 
At Williams, safety is our highest priority. MARK CLUFF, VICE PRESIDENT OF SAFETY AND OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AT WILLIAMSWILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTMitigating Safety RisksIn 2020, Williams implemented an updated Safe Work Management 
operating requirement for application across all operations for employees who are completing work plans, job safety analyses and work permitting. 
The update focuses on strengthening hazard recognition and mitigating hazards in the execution of work. The process helps employees correctly select the appropriate safety tasks needed to complete work via a series 
of detailed questions.As part of this effort, we introduced the mobile Safe Work Application, 
an industry-leading virtual tool developed by Williams to improve safety, compliance and effectiveness as part of the work permitting process. 
In the first year of use, Williams completed more than 185,000 permits through the Safe Work Application. The application alleviates the need 
to use paper forms and helps employees complete proper permit packages for specific jobs, with prompts to address potential hazards associated 
with the work. Through the newly developed mobile application, employees complete the process, leaders electronically approve the process and 
trends are tracked in active permitting.Comstock meter run in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana.Employee Total Recordable Incident 
Rate per 200,000 Work Hours1.21.091.071.050.23
(COVID-19 Related)1.00.810.80.550.60.820.40.2020182019202020172016>20% reduction in our preventable motor vehicle accident rate 
in 2020 from 2019.Operations Supervisor Jake M. and Regulatory Compliance Specialist Josh M. at Dallas Fort Worth International Airport.Staff Communications Specialist Tom D. and Attorney Casisia C. in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Employee HealthGRI 403-6Cultivating a healthy work environment aligns with our Core Values, increases productivity 
and promotes long-term value creation. We are dedicated to continuously improving health 
and wellness practices at Williams. 
We offer comprehensive programs and services—including robust medical plan benefits, disease management programs and wellness 
coaching—to support the health 
and wellness of employees during and after work. These benefits are available to all full-time and most part-time employees, regardless 
of location. The average annual 
cost trend of our medical plan since 
2010 is just 1.2%, which has enabled monthly medical plan premiums 
paid by our employees to remain 
flat for six of the past eight years. 
The national trend for employers during this period is approximately 5%–6% per year.Our Williams Way to Wellness program is a key component 
of our employee total rewards package. The program is available 
to employees as well as eligible spouses and domestic partners.As part of the program, we provide annual biometric health screenings and wellness assessments to employees with a focus on assessing overall health and early identification of any possible medical risks. While our biometric screening participation decreased in 2020 due to the pandemic, our commitment to this program continues in order to provide our employees with opportunities to make long-term behavioral changes and reward their efforts.The wellness program also works 
to encourage healthy living through annual employee initiatives from physical activity to financial planning. For example, we offer a Real Appeal weight-loss program at no cost 
to eligible employees, spouses, domestic partners and dependents enrolled in Williams’ medical plan. We evaluate participation and engagement in existing programs 
to determine design enhancements and inform communications efforts. We integrate our employee health and wellness activities with our employee safety efforts to leverage the natural synergies between employee health and safety. For information about personnel safety, see page 56.COVID-19 Pandemic COVID-19 brought new challenges 
to how we manage employee health. We improved training programs 
and operational processes to help minimize disruption to our business. For example, Williams utilized existing, centralized emergency call numbers as a tool for employees to self-report symptoms or potential exposure to COVID-19.We followed Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidance for contact tracing 
and quarantine. Williams also implemented an emergency response/corporate support 
team, which is a centralized team 
to track, triage and respond to 
any potential employee exposure, symptoms or positive cases of COVID-19. This included support from multiple groups including safety, human resources and building facilities to ensure we addressed both safety of our workforce and business continuity.In addition to centralizing our response effort, we quickly adopted preventive measures in our field locations to protect our employees and contractors and promote business continuity. We also developed business continuity operating teams to evaluate the evolving state executive orders to help maintain compliance in the states where we operate. Field employees engage in different work environments than our corporate offices and therefore require specialized measures to ensure their safety and our continued operations.These measures include, but are not limited to, social distancing; utilizing technology to eliminate in-person communication; developing 
isolated crews or “bubble teams” 
for operations, maintenance and project work; implementing CDC cleaning protocol of field offices 
and fleet vehicles; and establishing protocols for temperature screening of employees and contractors 
where necessary.Because our work was deemed essential during COVID-19, Williams needed to quickly adapt to evolving health and safety risks associated with our critical project work. Through this challenging time, we continued to prioritize the well-being of our employees. For example, when critical maintenance work 
was required at our Rocky Mountain Midstream franchises in April 2020, we implemented numerous COVID-19 protocols to protect Williams operators and contractors. These protocols included required personal protective equipment and COVID-19 contingency plans from every contractor, which included “crew bubble” plans to keep crews separate and make sure that a single infection could not impact the entire workforce. Operations, project teams and contractors had to diligently plan and cooperate to execute these protocols, and in doing so, we were able to complete the maintenance work safely and on schedule. We enacted similar protocols on our Leidy South project, Southeastern Trail project and other construction projects to ensure safety and reliability across the organization.At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we frequently reviewed both internal and external 
situational data to determine 
when Williams needed to offer remote working arrangements. Williams implemented measures in our offices and field locations, including 
a voluntary work from home policy, flexible hours, a rotating schedule 
to reduce office occupancy, special accommodations for childcare and business continuity plans for critical infrastructure employees. Despite these efforts, the pandemic increased our recordable illnesses in 2020. 
We sustained 11 cases of COVID-19 where the cause was, more likely 
than not, work-related exposure. In response, we established a COVID-19 response team to manage potential cases across the enterprise. These COVID-19 illnesses were recordable according to OSHA guidance issued at the onset of the pandemic. 
In-house safety professionals, including a certified industrial hygienist, interviewed staff, triaged potential exposures and provided guidance to employees. We also started developing similar exposure groups across the organization to systematically review health hazards across the enterprise and address risks using the hierarchy of controls.Operations Supervisors Scott N. and Jake M. and Senior Operations Technician Blake E. at Arc Park in Fort Worth, Texas.Pipeline SafetyPipeline IntegritySASB EM-MD-520a.1; EM-MD-540a.1; 
EM-MD-540a.2; GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3We operate more than 30,000 miles of pipeline systems to deliver 
the energy that the United States depends on for heating, cooking 
and electricity. All pipelines are thoroughly tested and inspected to rigorous standards when installed 
to attain a baseline of high integrity, reliability and safety. Our assets must be safe and reliable to serve our customers and communities and to generate value for our shareholders.Williams develops and maintains Integrity Management Plans for 
our pipeline systems. These plans provide a structured approach for 
the continual evaluation of risks 
and threats, implementing controls 
to prevent or mitigate the effects 
of potential incidents.A key element of maintaining 
pipeline integrity, reliability and safety is the deployment of Pipeline Integrity Assessments and repairs of identified defects. In 2020, Williams completed Integrity Assessments 
on 72 pipeline segments, with five 
of those segments warranting repair following field-based evaluation. Additionally, Williams maintained 
the high level of performance attained in 2019 with regard to the number of pipeline assessments in high consequence areas that did 
not require remediation. We will 
use the 2020 assessment data in continued field evaluations on these segments in subsequent years.We continuously update our Integrity Management Plans to respond 
to changes in the regulatory and industry landscape. PHMSA recently imposed additional requirements, including the consideration of seismicity as a risk factor in integrity management, for onshore gas transmission pipelines. PHMSA 
also published more stringent 
rules for onshore hazardous liquids transportation lines requiring 
Integrity Assessments on all onshore pipelines that accommodate in-line inspection tools. Williams conducts an annual performance evaluation to assess 
all elements of our integrity programs, pinpoint any improvement opportunities and develop action items to track completion of recommended improvements.Williams identified additional 
metrics to add to our annual program evaluation, including tracking the number of pipeline assessments that required no remediation and those that required no in-field evaluations. Williams conducts annual audits 
of our internal pipeline integrity initiatives conducted by company employees, along with external, third-party audits at least every 
three years. In 2020, Williams 
also implemented a dedicated records management system for 
all records pertaining to the Integrity Management Program. Williams 
also completed a risk assessment improvement project for pipeline 
risk analysis to improve the reliability of our risk assessment results and facilitate better decision-making to identify and prioritize improvements.Williams experienced nine 
reportable pipeline incidents in 
2020, including spills and releases 
to the environment, four of which were significant PHMSA reportable pipeline incidents. For more information on spills and releases, see the Minimizing Our Footprint section of this report on page 34. 
We work to remain in compliance with all applicable laws related to our pipelines. In 2020, we experienced $209,000 in monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings associated with federal pipeline 
and storage regulations.Williams monitors pipelines for flow, pressure, temperature and other factors through our dedicated control centers, which include automated system response to potential 
leak conditions. Technologies 
such as infrared, acoustic and 
lasers also facilitate leak detection.We use Light Detection and Ranging (LDAR) technology to monitor and respond to changing conditions in areas subject to landslides that could adversely affect pipelines. We also employ UAS to monitor pipelines 
for right-of-way activities that need investigation or response. We train pipeline control specialists on how 
to recognize abnormal conditions that could indicate a pipeline leak and how to respond accordingly.Williams completes aerial patrols 
at intervals prescribed by pipeline regulations, and in certain areas 
of more dense population, we complete the patrols more frequently than required. We also run cleaning pigs and use in-line inspection tools when needed for flow assurance 
and to manage many types of 
threats including internal and external corrosion. We coat all 
new pipelines with modern coating systems that act as the primary barrier to corrosion. In addition, 
we apply cathodic protection 
as a second line of defense to prevent corrosion.In 2020, Williams deployed 
helicopter-mounted leak detection technology for surveys in populated areas adjoining the Atlanta and Charlottesville divisions of our Eastern Interstates system. As a coordinated effort between four field districts, the local operations teams conducted semi annual helicopter surveys that are less disruptive to landowners, utilize more sensitive equipment and are a more efficient way to survey more populated 
areas. Williams is exploring other opportunities to utilize aerial 
leak survey technology across 
the company.Williams’ Pipeline Integrity ProgramOperations Technician Blake E. at Landfill Gas Line in Fort Worth, Texas.Maintenance Coordinator John G. at Spring Ridge South in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana utilizing a thermal imaging camera to inspect process equipment. Mechanical IntegrityWilliams operates gathering and processing facilities across the continental United States. Maintaining the integrity of these facilities is critical to safeguarding our employees, contractors and the public, while ensuring the continued safe operation of those facilities. The mechanical integrity requirements and guidelines, captured in the Williams Integrated Management System, outline 
the company’s expectations for managing mechanical integrity 
quality assurance, data management and midstream inspections.Williams conducts assessments 
and visual inspections of facilities 
on an interval-based schedule 
using a corrosion-based analytical process, including special emphasis assessments at higher-risk areas. When we install new equipment, we perform inspections prior to startup or asset commissioning to establish a mechanical Integrity Assessment baseline. We compile all historical design, inspection and testing information into a condition monitoring database for accurate inspection 
and data analysis. Through this process, Williams identifies assets that require comprehensive engineering assessments for continued safe operations.As part of our overall quality assurance process, Williams 
audits integrity plans and 
procedures annually to reflect improvements from external 
and internal reviews and lessons learned through program implementation and participation 
in industry trade association committees. Additionally, Williams implements program maintenance through a continuous audit process that assists in annual planning.WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTNational Petroleum Council StudyWilliams led the National Petroleum Council (NPC) Study titled Dynamic Delivery, America’s Evolving Oil and Natural Gas Transportation Infrastructure. This study 
reviewed the current state of technology advancement and development as well as 
future needs for U.S. oil and gas infrastructure. The study concluded that technology developments and advancements have and will continue to significantly improve 
safety and environmental performance of the oil and natural gas transportation sector. Since the study’s publication, Williams has invested resources into implementing recommendations from the NPC Study. For example, in line with one of its recommendations around the advancement of new technologies, PHMSA 
implemented new rules that allow prudent deployment of new technologies with 
a more clearly prescribed process and timeline. This streamlining of regulations 
allows operators to use “other technologies” if the operator demonstrates an equivalent level of safety for the pipeline. Williams has aggressively adopted new in-line inspection technologies (ILI) to assess our lines for all relevant threats and will continue to do so through the application of PHMSA’s new rule. In addition to improving overall pipeline safety and reliability, these new technologies help Williams reduce methane emissions by offsetting the need for disruptive hydrostatic pipeline testing, which requires venting 
of methane to complete the Integrity Assessments. Williams has also applied the study recommendation of cross-industry collaboration with other industry players, as well as with regulators, to improve safety performance. One such collaboration was the development of a comprehensive pipeline safety management system (PSMS) in accordance with American Petroleum Institute (API) Recommended Practice 1173. PSMS is an elective program based on the Plan-Do-Check-Act philosophy of continuous improvement, and Williams believes the program 
will have a measurable positive impact on our safety performance. Once fully implemented, Williams’ PSMS will integrate several existing safety-related systems and processes, helping identify and mitigate gaps that could result in incidents if left unchecked. 
In 2020, Williams formed PSMS steering and working teams, as well as a quarterly executive engagement cadence to guide program implementation. Each team has functional discipline representation from across the operating and functional areas to provide diverse expertise. This recommended practice provides a framework that is instrumental in improving pipeline safety performance through standardization of key elements of management systems. Finally, in alignment with other recommendations from the study, Williams participates in many opportunities for industry 
pipeline safety collaboration including Interstate Natural Gas Association of America, Pipeline Research Council International 
and applicable joint industry projects. Williams is engaging in research and development opportunities to study the effects of hydrogen blending on existing pipeline infrastructure as well as quantifying impact, risks and mitigations to equipment that could be candidates for a transition to renewable fuel sources. Further, Williams is contributing financially and providing resources to investigate other opportunities to engage in renewable energy utilization, transportation and storage.Public SafetyEmergency PreparednessSASB EM-MD-540a.4eOur operations are often located in areas with high-density populations, and safeguarding the public is fundamental to everything we 
do at Williams. We have robust processes in place to prepare for and appropriately respond to a 
wide range of emergency situations. Our goal is to protect Williams’ workforce and the communities surrounding our operations.The Williams Integrated Management System includes company-wide requirements for implementing midstream and pipeline emergency response procedures. We annually review and update our Williams Integrated Management System documents to continuously improve our practices and respond to changes in regulatory requirements. Operating managers are responsible for establishing site-specific emergency plans at our facilities. We evaluate emergency plans annually to confirm the required notification lists, evacuation processes and operating requirements are in place. Throughout a project lifecycle, from land acquisition to decommissioning, the Williams Integrated Management System operationalizes our required safety processes and procedures. In implementing API Recommended Practice 1173, Williams thoroughly reviews the emergency response process and identifies gaps. One gap we identified centered on documenting exercises and drills consistently across the organization. Williams now has a process established to maintain consistency and is in the process of updating the emergency response operating requirement to reflect those changes. For more information about API 1173, see Pipeline Integrity on page 62.As a responsible member of the communities where we operate, Williams provides employees with annual safety drills and training exercises to prepare for a diverse 
set of emergencies, including accidental releases and 
security-related incidents. Williams requires emergency responders 
to be included in relevant training exercises and drills at least every three years. We conduct drills 
and tabletop exercises with first responders to make sure we both understand needed responses in 
the unlikely event of an incident on our pipeline systems. We provide instructor-led training courses and web-based training programs to emergency responders through 
our online portal. We also conduct outreach efforts with emergency responders, including in-person meetings, facility tours and informational mailers. In 2020, Williams sent more than 21,600 public awareness mailers to emergency response agencies.Williams implemented a pandemic response business continuity plan 
in 2020 to provide guidance for supplementing existing department business continuity plans with pandemic planning. The plan also established measures to protect employees and safeguard critical business operations during a pandemic or other serious widespread illness. The enterprise plan established activation triggers that are initiated based on current conditions and severity of the pandemic threat. This will help define the operational posture of individual facilities, districts and the organization. Once the executive officer team activates the enterprise pandemic response, individual departments can utilize the 
corporate or operational readiness planning checklist to assist in preparation efforts. If an emergency incident does 
occur, we fully investigate the cause to prevent future occurrences. Our remediation management process establishes a standard method for managing post-emergency responses at company sites. By maintaining updated notification lists, Williams 
can coordinate with local emergency response organizations to effectively communicate necessary information to local communities. In 2020, there was a lightning strike that ignited 
a tank at one of our facilities in northeastern Pennsylvania. We collaborated with the local emergency response department to quickly address the situation and mitigate potential impacts on public safety. Fortunately, no injuries occurred 
as a result of the fire. Williams participated in an after-action review meeting with first responders to review the incident and discuss 
ways to prevent future occurrences.We care greatly about the well-being of the communities where we operate, especially during times of emergency. Through our corporate giving channels, Williams provides financial contributions to support local emergency response teams. 
In 2020, Williams donated over $600,000 to more than 400 first responder organizations throughout our operating areas. We make charitable investments to employees and communities affected by natural disasters. In 2020, Williams contributed $3,000 in grants to first responders who completed Williams’ online emergency responder training course. We communicate this training and grant opportunity to emergency responders during in-person meetings as well as through our annual mailing program. For more information on Community Engagement, see page 88.As a safety-driven organization, we are committed to safeguarding our employees and our neighbors. We do this 
by continually expanding and strengthening our public safety campaigns that support one-call center, Damage Prevention and Public Awareness, and our comprehensive contingency plans ensure that our employees and first responders are able to respond immediately, safely and efficiently to any emergency response situation. BRIAN MCCOY, DIRECTOR OF ENTERPRISE SECURITY AND SERVICES AT WILLIAMSPipeline right-of-way near downtown Fort Worth, Texas.Public Awareness Our focus on public safety contributes to our reputation as a reliable operator. One of the greatest challenges to maintaining safe pipeline operations is accidental damage caused by third-party excavation, construction, farming activities and homeowner maintenance. Williams has robust procedures in place to proactively engage with local stakeholders 
to help prevent potential safety incidents and reduce third-party damage to pipelines. We integrate best practices from the Common Ground Alliance, a member-driven association committed to preventing damage to underground infrastructure. Williams’ public awareness and damage prevention steering committee oversees the communication and implementation of public awareness and 
damage prevention initiatives. 
We design public awareness programs to enhance safety by increasing knowledge of pipeline locations and safety prevention measures. In 2020, the committee launched a new electronic form and mobile application to make it easier for Williams employees to record supplemental public awareness outreach activities with landowners, farmers, professional excavators 
and other stakeholders. Williams sends an annual public awareness mailer to surrounding landowners and community members detailing the importance 
of calling “811” at least three days before the start of any digging project so underground utilities 
can mark their lines. We also send 
a mailer to farming and ranching communities within 10 miles of our pipelines. We always encourage individuals to contact one of 
our 24-hour control centers to 
report abnormal conditions or an emergency at Williams’ pipelines 
and facilities. Our online damage prevention 
toolkit provides field personnel with tools, resources and technologies 
for identifying and preventing 
line strikes. We update the toolkit regularly as new best practices, lessons learned or improved tools and technologies become available. Williams uses a dashboard that communicates trends in near-miss and line-strike data across the company and helps drive reporting consistency. In 2020, Williams expanded the dashboard to 
include supplemental data, 
including one-call center tickets 
to provide easier access to centralized information. Williams successfully mitigated multiple third-party one-call center system failures in 2020, which prevented impacted states from generating one-call tickets or sending tickets to utility operators. We performed 24-hour patrols and took 24-hour calls from excavators 
to prevent third-party line strikes during these periods. Despite 
these challenges, Williams did 
not experience any Department 
of Transportation (DOT) reportable releases from third-party damages 
in 2020.We maintain compliance with all relevant DOT requirements, including the annual manual review (AMR) 
and periodic procedure review (PPR). The AMR is an annual review to address changes in regulations 
and technical or industry standards and evaluate whether our operating requirements are adequate and effective. The PPR is done every 
five years to observe the work done by employees on DOT-regulated pipelines and facilities to determine the adequacy and effectiveness 
of procedures used in normal operations and maintenance. Process SafetyWilliams safely delivers the energy that people use every day to heat homes, cook food and generate electricity. We integrate safety into all aspects of our operations, including how we manage our facilities and assets. The Williams Integrated Management System includes a comprehensive set of policies and standards to manage process safety that ranges from pre-startup safety review policies to process hazard analysis requirements. We proactively manage process safety risks while complying with applicable regulations and industry standards. To create a uniform approach to conducting safety reviews, we implemented standardized management of change and pre-startup safety review software across the organization that more thoroughly evaluates and tracks modifications to our assets.Williams implements processes 
and uses equipment to prevent the uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons and hazardous substances. We follow the API Recommended Practice 754 to track process 
safety occurrences. In 2020, we experienced 13 process safety 
Tier 1 events. We aimed to decrease process safety incidents by 10% 
in 2020 and met this goal, with a 12.5% decrease in Tier 1 and Tier 2 safety events. These releases were predominantly Tier 2 events. A focused task team was set up in 2020 to review process safety releases for common root causes and lessons learned. We set a goal to reduce annual process safety incidents 
by an additional 10% in 2021.Williams views strong safety performance as synonymous 
with a well-managed company. Williams continues to emphasize hazard and near-miss identification and reporting to better investigate potential incidents and mitigate 
actual incidents before they occur. 
Our emphasis on high-potential near-misses continues to strengthen our safety culture and builds a deeper understanding of hazard recognition that will ultimately drive down incident severity. We share lessons learned across the company so employees understand key findings.Our live performance data dashboard for process safety incidents lets us further assess 
our key safety indicators and 
identify areas for improvement. 
The dashboard allows increased visibility into process safety metrics and performance from an enterprise level down to the individual asset.78.5% achieved reduction 
in process safety incidents since 2017. Operations Technician Blake E. at Delga compressor station in Fort Worth, Texas.CybersecurityAs an energy infrastructure company, Williams is keenly aware of potential damages due to cyberattacks, including physical harm, financial losses and reputational damage. 
We are committed to protecting Williams’ facilities, operations and business-critical information to preserve stakeholder and customer trust and promote long-term business sustainability. Williams implements preventive measures, company-wide policies and training courses to 
avert unauthorized access to our physical locations and computerized systems. In 2020, we blocked 98% 
of malicious messages.Governance PracticesOur commitment to mitigating cybersecurity risks extends to all levels of the organization, from facility personnel to the board of directors. Our executive-level steering committee provides additional oversight on Williams’ cybersecurity initiatives. In 2020, Williams established a new management structure, with two new teams overseeing cybersecurity issues.The cyber risk team focuses on cyber governance, risk assessment and compliance review and facilitation. The cyber operations team focuses on access fulfillment, technical security control management, security event monitoring, security standards development and incident response. Additionally, we established a new cybersecurity hardening committee for all groups across IT. In 2020, the executive-level steering committee approved the refinement of company cybersecurity-related policies: Data Classification, Cybersecurity and Acceptable Use Policy. These three policies include step-by-step guidelines to establish a timely, consistent response to mitigate the effects of any security incidents on our customers, partners and employees.In 2021, we will incorporate other cybersecurity- and data-related policies into the standards 
and programs associated with 
these three main policies. The executive-level committee also improved cybersecurity reporting metrics, such as time lost due 
to event and incident response actions. We developed a quarterly cybersecurity board report to communicate our performance and any identified risks to the board.Programs 
& InitiativesWith the abrupt transition to remote work in March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the need 
for reinforced cybersecurity. As a result, we created more focused cybersecurity campaigns dealing with home network security and public Wi-Fi. Our new VPN solution provided added security for our newly remote workforce. We also implemented new controls such as anti-virus software for workstations and servers, data loss prevention and cloud security. Additional initiatives included a network behavior analytics project, 
firewall deployment, a multi-factor authentication project, improved centralized logging, a cell modem management tool and an access management modernization project. In 2020, our executive-level 
steering committee established 
an industrial control systems cybersecurity program. 
This program aims to protect, secure and make our technology-based operational assets available to meet business demands. We do this by leveraging the appropriate skill 
sets across departments, applying best practices and maintaining accountability to leadership, including the board of directors. We conduct regular internal audits and risk strategy sessions to assess cybersecurity threats and respond accordingly. To complement this effort, Williams contracts with a third party to evaluate our corporate and operations networks. We remain focused on continuously improving our approach to managing cybersecurity. In 2020, we completed a tabletop exercise 
and a cybersecurity maturity benchmark to prioritize future 
goals and initiatives. The results of the tabletop exercise indicated that Williams is well versed in handling security incidents and able to effectively triage, investigate and communicate ransomware situations. TrainingOur cybersecurity awareness 
and training standard helps all employees, contractors and 
vendors be aware of cybersecurity risks. In 2020, 99.7% of employees completed cybersecurity training to reduce risk exposure. Williams also deploys monthly simulated phishing emails to practice identifying and responding to email attacks. We require employees and contractors who fail a phishing email test to complete additional training.Williams supplements training programs with awareness initiatives that call attention to cybersecurity through posters, presentations, newsletters and events. For the 
past five years, Williams has hosted a Know Williams event during National Cybersecurity Awareness Month to inform employees about 
the different types of cybersecurity risks. In 2020, virtual sessions included topics like “Identity Theft” and “Scams Exploiting COVID-19” 
to better equip our employees to protect data and privacy. Tulsa pipeline control in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Operations Technicians Benjamin B. and Kaleb S. at Camstock meter run in DeSoto Parish, Louisiana.