Minimizing Our FootprintAs we work to provide energy transport, storage and delivery solutions, Williams will be there to safeguard the environment. We incorporate environmental considerations into our decision-making process at all stages of operations. We maintain and constantly stress test our processes to ensure best-in-class environmental risk mitigation across our operations and strive to meet or exceed applicable laws and regulations.Environmental ComplianceEnvironmental stewardship is one of Williams’ Core Values. We hold ourselves accountable to meet or exceed all applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. At facilities where environmental regulations do not apply, we facilitate discussions to implement responsible standards and practices. Our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy outlines our commitment to protect the environment and integrate environmental considerations into our core business activities. Every employee and contractor is responsible for adhering to this policy. Williams’ environmental, health and safety committee within our board of directors oversees our company-wide culture of environmental protection, as outlined in our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy.We put our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy into action with the Williams Integrated Management System (WIMS). This management system serves as our company-wide platform for providing requirements, guidelines, procedures, standards and specifications to manage and reduce operational and environmental risk. Our employees use WIMS every day to conduct critical work, ensure compliance with regulations and mitigate environmental impacts. Changing regulatory requirements and our steadfast commitment to continuous improvement drive proactive updates to WIMS. In 2021, we updated our Environmental Compliance Assurance operating requirement to align with our Maximo EHS Work Management System (Maximo). We also expanded WIMS to include a new Environmental Due Diligence operating requirement outlining the process and responsibilities for ensuring Williams’ protection from environmental liabilities and risks when purchasing or selling a property or asset. In 2021, we developed and implemented an effort to clarify and refine roles and responsibilities to increase consistency regarding environmental compliance and performance processes. Upon project completion, Williams will have a roadmap to assist with managing and advancing our compliance programs. Upholding compliance with local, state and federal regulations while protecting the environment is critical to maintaining operational excellence, protecting our social license to operate and delivering value to our shareholders. We use Maximo to assign and track tasks and monitor the completion of recurring environmental compliance responsibilities. In 2021, Williams migrated environmental compliance-related tasks from the legacy information system to Maximo, making it the official system of record for environmental compliance. We reviewed all air permits against Maximo to provide complete compliance assurance. We planned an additional project for 2022 to review compliance with other types of regulatory requirements and improve task management consistency. To reinforce the importance of maintaining company compliance, Williams rewards front-line employees for timely completion of required tasks through our quarterly bonus incentive.In 2021, Williams received 21 environmental-related notices of noncompliance, no change from our 2020 performance. Therefore, we did not meet our 2021 goal of a 10% reduction. We continuously strive to reduce this number to zero. WIMS requires all environmental-related notices of noncompliance to undergo a root cause analysis. We identify action items throughout the process and share learnings across the business with the intent of preventing repeat noncompliance. Williams updates and develops new company-wide procedures to manage compliance activities when necessary.53%reduction in environmental-related notices of noncompliance since 2017A grassy hillside with trees in Pennsylvania.A shaded hillside near station 610 in Pennsylvania.Aerial photograph of a liquified natural gas storage tank.The Transco Pine Needle liquified natural gas storage facility in North Carolina.Environmental Assessment ProgramOur Environmental Assessment Program (EAP) establishes a risk-based evaluation process to systematically assess our compliance with federal, state and local environmental regulations and WIMS requirements. We use internally developed EAP protocols and tools to evaluate environmental compliance at various project stages, ranging from land acquisition, development and construction to operations, decommissioning and restoration. Williams’ 2021 EAP included assessments at three plants, six compressor stations and three construction projects. For the first full year of evaluating construction sites and scheduling construction projects as part of the ongoing process, we identified and addressed gaps quickly and implemented several recommendations and best practices. We share the assessment results across the company through EAP databases and dashboards to analyze the data and track environmental performance trends for future projects. Examples of best practices include posting compliance posters and permit summaries with compliance requirements; preparing and implementing Slip Detection, Prevention and Mitigation plans on steep construction sites; and proactively managing maintenance assessments.In 2021, several teams consisting of internal environmental professionals reviewed compiled data from the program’s start four years ago to the present, to evaluate trends and identify areas of improvement across all environmental media. As a result of the in-depth review, the teams communicated opportunities to reduce regulatory risks using consistent compliance approaches. Additionally, Williams identified opportunities to strengthen communications with environmental staff and operations, including additional guidelines. The EAP demonstrates our commitment to achieving environmental compliance through periodic site evaluations, while using the outputs to continuously improve our compliance status.Operational Greenhouse Gas EmissionsGRI 102-12; 103-1; 103-2, 103-3Williams takes pride in reliably delivering energy that helps improve quality of life by providing communities with clean energy for commercial and residential uses. We recognize that the assets we operate and the products we transport generate GHG emissions. As one of the largest midstream operators in the country, we must balance increasing energy demand and technology constraints with care for the environment. By improving the efficiency of our operations, leveraging low-carbon solutions and implementing emissions reduction technologies, Williams is actively working to minimize our operational Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.Transparent ReportingSASB EM-MD-110a.1 Transparently communicating on our performance remains an important expectation of our stakeholders. We prioritize accurate tracking and reporting of GHG emissions using measurable data. WIMS includes requirements for monitoring GHG emissions and complying with federal and state reporting requirements.We prepare and submit an annual GHG emissions inventory to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for our midstream gathering, processing and interstate transmission and storage operations. We also track and report Scope 1 and 2 emissions data in accordance with the CDP technical guidance. Our subject matter experts, engineering groups, environmental specialists and operations personnel use GHG emissions data to develop emissions reduction strategies. We evaluate emissions down to the facility level using our GHG emissions dashboard. The dashboard shows emissions for each Williams compressor station, processing plant and fractionator, regardless of regulatory-required reporting thresholds. In 2021, we successfully executed a project to leverage operational data from fuel meters to more accurately calculate emissions from combustion sources at gathering compressor stations. Through this enhancement, we reduced reported emissions by more than 200,000 metric tons of CO2e. We plan to implement this process at processing plants in 2022, with an additional anticipated emissions reduction of 85,000 metric tons of CO2e.Since 2019, Williams has engaged ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) to provide third-party verification of our GHG emissions. ERM CVS provided assurance that the adjacent GHG data was fairly presented in all material respects with the following reporting criteria: total 2021 absolute Scope 1 GHG emissions, total 2021 location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions and total 2021 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. See Assurance Statement for our full Assurance Letter.Scope 1 & Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions[1][1].Includes 100% of volumes from operated assets as of December 31, 2021.Bar graph from 2018 to 2021 depicting Williams' Scope 1 and Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions, with a line above the bars depicting Williams' combined transmission capacity and gathering volume. As Combined Transmission Capacity and Gathering Volume increase over time, combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions remain relatively flat. In 2018, there were 10.74 million tons of Scope 1 emissions, 1.15 million tons of Scope 2 emissions, and 32.1 billion cubic feet of combined capacity and volume. In 2019, there were 11.13 million tons of Scope 1 emissions, 1.55 million tons of Scope 2 emissions, and 35.3 billion cubic feet of combined capacity and volume.  In 2020, there were 10.43 million tons of Scope 1 emissions, 1.50 million tons of Scope 2 emissions, and 36.2 billion cubic feet of combined capacity and volume.  In 2021, there were 10.26 million tons of Scope 1 emissions, 1.66 million tons of Scope 2 emissions, and 37.7 billion cubic feet of combined capacity and volume.Williams employee using a gas imaging camera on a building to monitor methane and volatile organic compounds.Operations Technician Rod Strother at station 610 in Pennsylvania.Greenhouse Gas Emissions ReductionSASB EM-MD-110a.2We aim to reduce our operational GHG emissions, which occur at our assets. These assets primarily include gathering systems and intrastate and interstate transmission pipelines, compressor stations, natural gas processing plants and liquefied natural gas (LNG) and underground storage facilities.Our efforts to reduce operational GHG emissions include operating our assets efficiently through preventive maintenance, conducting leak detection and repair (LDAR) assessments, implementing recompression measures, installing emissions reduction equipment such as compressor vent gas reduction systems and emission control devices, and evaluating usage of gas drivers versus electric motors. In 2021, we established focus teams across our enterprise to drive innovation for further operationalization of emissions reductions. These teams capture emissions reduction opportunities and achievements in a common log to easily share across area boundaries, such as the development of a Pigging Activity Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction System (PAGER). PAGER uses a catalytic heater and fabricated reservoir to convert pigging emissions to carbon dioxide prior to atmospheric venting. The project demonstrates our employee engagement and entrepreneurial spirit.Williams continues to invest in GHG reduction efforts. In 2021, we spent $3.14 million on 68 recompression events to capture and recompress blowdowns on pipeline rights-of-way. We recovered 1,592 million standard cubic feet of natural gas, equivalent to recovering 29,036 metric tons of methane, assuming 95% volume of methane content.For information on reducing indirect GHG emissions from the use of our products, see Climate Change.Headshot of Camilo Amezquita.The 2030 goal of a 56% reduction in GHG serves as our roadmap for many initiatives on the Northwest Pipeline System. We are reducing methane emissions from pipeline blowdowns by implementing standards to incorporate drawdown, recompression, or flaring options during planned maintenance activities. Through our Emissions Reduction Program, we plan to replace 40% of the legacy 1956 reciprocating engines on the Northwest Pipeline with low-emission gas turbine engines and upgrade emissions controls on 14 gas turbines by 2027. We are proud that these efforts are expected to reduce methane emissions from compressors on Northwest Pipeline by 35% from recent levels.CAMILO AMEZQUITA, VICE PRESIDENT FOR NORTHWEST PIPELINE AT WILLIAMSPipeline infrastructure at a fenced-in facility.WILLIAMS WILL BE THEREPartnering With Coterra to Reduce Emissions From Natural Gas Production Our partnership with Coterra, a diversified energy company, began in early 2021 by collaborating on an innovative solution to provide natural gas as a fuel for well completion projects. Williams provides Coterra with natural gas to fuel drilling rigs and well completion operations by drawing on the existing gathering pipeline infrastructure. We balance just-in-time spend on gathering projects to remain cost-effective and provide low-emissions fuel, a strategy typically employed during the expansion of existing assets. Our partnership helps to reduce emissions from diesel fuel and reduces costs. Coterra adjusted its equipment to run on natural gas or duel-fuel, a combination of natural gas and diesel, and used Williams’ operational gas flow data to develop a virtual gas meter for balancing volumes used versus delivered. As a result, Coterra used up to 400 thousand standard cubic feet per day of natural gas from the gathering system as fuel to power well operations. This partnership reduces GHG emissions by suppling gas to replace higher carbon intensity fuels and by more efficiently delivering the natural gas through pipelines.Aerial photograph of the Transco compressor station surrounded by trees and rolling hills on the horizon.The Transco compressor station in North Carolina.PROGRESSING GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS TARGETSWilliams’ 2030 target reflects our dedication to reducing GHG emissions in a timeframe that holds our leadership accountable. Since 2005, we have reduced our operational emissions by 47% and are on our way to meeting our 2030 goal of a 56% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions from a 2005 baseline. We incorporate our climate commitment goal into our decision-making around capital and resource allocation. To progress toward our 2030 goal, Williams is prioritizing our natural gas-focused strategy and technology that is available today to reduce emissions, while scaling renewable energy that will fuel the clean energy economy. We are proactively advancing this strategy with the expertise of Williams’ New Energy Ventures group. The group focuses on commercializing innovative technologies and markets that will ultimately contribute to our aim to be net zero by 2050. We are using readily available technology to pursue immediate methane emissions reduction opportunities, implement work practice improvements and evaluate equipment upgrades on a site-specific basis. This near-term phase also includes employing innovative emissions reduction strategies through research organizations and trade groups. To guarantee Williams is engaged on all fronts, we have joined GTI Project Veritas and the Collaboratory for Advancing Methane Science. Joining these initiatives allows us to engage in the growing conversations around the quantification and reduction of methane emissions and evaluate the most recent technologies. We will expand these opportunities while looking to invest in future clean energy projects and carbon abatement instruments. By cost-effectively reducing methane emissions, we are contributing to the total reductions necessary to achieve our 2030 target. For more information, see our website.Williams is also a member of Our Nation’s Energy Future Coalition, Inc. (ONE Future), a group of energy companies voluntarily working to reduce methane emissions by identifying policy and technical solutions that better manage emissions associated with production, processing, transmission and distribution. Williams’ employees actively serve on the ONE Future technical committee, communications committee and board of directors to advance its mission. ONE Future members set a goal to reduce collective methane emissions in their supply chains to 1% or less by 2025. Williams has committed to the ONE Future 2025 methane intensity goals for industry sectors of 0.080% for gathering and boosting, 0.111% for processing and 0.301% for transmission and storage. In 2020, the 51 member companies achieved a methane intensity of 0.424%, outperforming the ONE Future goal by 58%. Williams continues to exceed anticipated progress toward the ONE Future GHG reduction goal.ONE Future MembershipGathering & BoostingPie chart showing the following data.ONE Future Methane Emissions 2025 Target0.080%2021 Williams Methane Emissions Performance[1][1].The methane emissions intensity is by Williams segment, and is calculated in accordance with the ONE Future methodology. Units are mass of methane emitted per mass of methane throughput. Intensity is based on company-specific methane throughput and is not adjusted to gross production.0.021%Processing Pie chart showing the following data.ONE Future Methane Emissions 2025 Target0.111%2021 Williams Methane Emissions Performance[1]0.017%Transmission & StoragePie chart showing the following data.ONE Future Methane Emissions 2025 Target0.301%2021 Williams Methane Emissions Performance[1]0.020%ADDRESSING METHANE EMISSIONSWe have a long history of striving to reduce methane emissions, which make up an estimated 10% of our assets’ Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions profile. Since 2017, we have reduced our reported methane emissions from natural gas processing plants and transmission compressor stations by more than 1.8%. Over the same period, the natural gas throughput at these facilities increased by 22%. To continue creating a focus on reducing GHG emissions right here, right now, we have set a total methane emissions reduction target of 5% from our three-year average, as part of our 2022 all-employee Annual Incentive Program. Williams has been a member of the U.S. EPA Natural Gas STAR program since its inception in 1993. Natural Gas STAR is a voluntary partnership that encourages oil and natural gas companies to adopt cost-effective technologies and practices that improve operational efficiency and reduce methane emissions. From 1993 to 2021, Williams avoided emitting 5.68 million metric tons of CO2e by implementing industry best practices to reduce pipeline blowdowns and partnering with the Natural Gas STAR program, the equivalent to taking over 1.23 million cars off the road.In 2021, Williams developed a robust compliance management program that aligns with Maryland’s new natural gas industry ruling. As part of the effort, we implemented methane emissions control requirements for natural gas-fired engines and an online notification system with information on natural gas venting events. REDUCING METHANE LEAKSWilliams strives to minimize methane leaks from natural gas production, gathering and processing, transmission and distribution and LNG shipping. We support technologies and policies that help minimize methane leaks. Williams is a signatory of the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America’s Methane Emissions Commitment to implement methane reduction activities and perform leak surveys at all transmission and storage compressor stations by 2022.Williams uses infrared cameras to identify and repair leaking equipment. We conduct quarterly, semiannual or annual LDAR surveys on Williams’ compressor stations and facilities using an optical gas imaging (OGI) camera. Williams’ LDAR surveys are an effective work practice in significantly reducing emissions of fugitive methane to the environment. Williams developed separate LDAR Standards for the gathering and boosting and transmission sectors in 2021 and is developing a comprehensive WIMS requirement with associated roles and responsibilities for LDAR. Once finalized, we will use these documents to communicate the roles and responsibilities of Williams’ employees for promoting an improved, efficient and effective LDAR program across the enterprise.Williams also uses a single software platform, Leak Tracker Pro™ (LTP), to maintain leak records from OGI surveys conducted in the Williams gathering and boosting and transmission sectors. Use of LTP allows for improved surveys, recordkeeping and a more in-depth look at trends. LTP results help accurately identify leaking equipment components such as valves, connectors, flanges, pumps and open-ended lines to repair them. Williams analyzes LTP results to reduce future leaks at our facilities, helping to achieve our emissions reduction targets. In 2021, Williams implemented and executed the Williams’ Leak Detection and Repair Program (WilLDAR) for our transmission compressor facilities. We performed an annual WilLDAR survey at 32 Transco and Northwest Pipeline compressor stations that did not previously have LDAR required by state or federal regulation. We estimate that proactively instituting voluntary LDAR at these compressor locations will reduce methane emissions by over 50% on average at each facility. Male Williams employee wearing a hard hat, eye protection and gloves, walking next to an above-ground pipeline.WILLIAMS WILL BE THEREMinimizing Pipeline Blowdown EmissionsIn 2021, Williams incorporated an operating procedure to reduce transmission pipeline blowdown emissions in our Transmission & Gulf of Mexico operating area. The procedure establishes a standard for reducing GHG emissions from large transmission pipeline blowdowns, identified by the volume of natural gas vented directly to the atmosphere. We successfully implement pressure draw down and recompression measures to lower gas line pressure before pipeline maintenance, to reduce methane emissions and make more natural gas available for sale. In 2021, Williams reported 68 separate blowdown events along our Transco and Northwest Pipelines where natural gas was rerouted or captured and recompressed instead of being vented. Since implementing this procedure in 2021, Williams saved 1.6 billion cubic feet of gas, the equivalent of heating more than 38,164 homes for a year.84%average reduction in pipeline blowdown GHG emissions when using recompression technologyAerial photograph of a field of solar panels next to station 610, surrounded by rolling hills.Rendering of a fully developed solar site at station 610 in Pennsylvania.SCALING SOLAR ENERGYWilliams is dedicated to harnessing solar generation opportunities on company assets, focusing on solar projects that provide electricity to our existing natural gas compression and processing facilities. In 2021, Williams advanced 10 solar projects to the permitting phase and will continue further development of these projects in the future. In 2021, Williams’ facilities used 4.077 million megawatt-hours of electricity to power our operations, and we expect similar usage in future years. The projects currently under commercial development across the Williams operational footprint will offset approximately 5% of Williams total energy use. Last year, Williams evaluated the feasibility of battery applications across the company’s footprint, and is now advancing battery storage projects in many of the sites that are in development for solar. Standalone storage projects are also feasible at multiple sites in the Northeast and Texas. These storage projects intend to minimize Williams’ footprint for capacity and transmission services, as well as reduce energy costs by shifting electricity usage from on-peak periods to off-peak periods.As part of Williams’ Rooftop Solar initiative, which includes investments in intermittent solar power through combined cycle backup on the grid and tax credits, our Princeton Division office began producing electricity from solar energy in 2021. By the end of 2021, the office produced 11.1 megawatt-hours of electricity, capturing just over $1,676 in renewable energy credits (RECs) and saving approximately $1,776 in electric savings. We anticipate solar power production to rise over the spring and summer months of 2022, trending closer to our expectation of 64 megawatt-hours annually. Our expected production would produce approximately $9,700 in RECs and $10,240 in electric savings for a total savings of approximately $20,000 per year for this project. Research & Collaboration We work with external organizations, through active participation, funding and program leadership to support efforts that reduce GHG emissions from our industry. Our government and regulatory affairs team maintains oversight of Williams’ external partnerships and participation.American Petroleum Institute Environmental Partnership: A forum for participants to share information and analyze best practices and technological breakthroughs aimed at responsibly developing natural gas and oil resources. The partnership represents a growing coalition of U.S.-based production, processing and transmission companies responsible for meeting the nation’s growing demand for low-cost energy. As a member of the partnership, Williams is committed to improving environmental performance by accelerating methane emissions reductions from key emissions sources. Collaboratory for Advancing Methane Science (CAMS): An industry-led research consortium that works to better characterize and understand methane emissions. CAMS members work collaboratively to provide actionable, transparent methane science to contribute to the understanding of methane emissions across the oil and gas value chain and inform mitigation strategies. Williams joined CAMS in 2021 to amplify this initiative. Colorado State University’s Methane Emissions Technology Evaluation Center (METEC): A platform for researchers to test and develop new, innovative technology to measure methane emissions. The Center also connects researchers with industry partners to facilitate energy technology development, and prepares students for careers in energy and clean technology. Williams continues to provide funding to the Center. Gas Machinery Research Council (GMRC): An industry initiative to support the continual improvement of technological advancements through research initiatives and collaborations. Williams is a member company of the GMRC and sits on the GMRC board. As part of our membership, Williams participates on the GMRC project supervisory committee that leads research projects aimed at cutting GHG emissions, improving compression efficiency and reducing lube oil consumption at member facilities. Pipeline Research Council International (PRCI): A program focused on technology development to reduce GHG emissions in all aspects of our industry — from combustion emissions to fugitives. Williams drives industry research through our membership of the PRCI compressor and pump station technical committee. In 2021, Williams’ vice president of environmental and permitting joined the PRCI executive assembly and board chair, supporting the research for the long-term minimization of operating and capital costs of compression and pump service, while complying with environmental regulation. PRCI established the Emerging Fuels Institute in 2021, which will spearhead research on next generation energy transportation and storage. The institute will research energy sources such as hydrogen, renewable natural gas and other potential gas and liquid fuel sources to find solutions that safely meet global energy needs.Texas Methane and Flaring Coalition: A coalition focused on identifying and promoting best practices for the reduction of flaring and methane emissions in Texas. Williams is a member, along with all of Texas’ oil and gas trade associations and over 40 oil and gas companies. Air Emissions SASB EM-MD-120a.1; GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 305-7The U.S. is experiencing an unprecedented demand for clean and reliable natural gas. Williams closely monitors the air emissions associated with our operations to meet increasing energy demand while minimizing potential air emissions impacts on people and the environment. We actively mitigate air emissions from our facilities, including, but not limited to, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, hazardous air pollutants, carbon monoxide, sulfur oxides and particulate matter. Our methods for mitigating these emissions include maximizing operational efficiency, implementing operational best practices and controls, and monitoring compliance with local, state, regional and federal laws and regulations. Williams has robust management procedures for tracking and reporting air quality-related data through WIMS. We collate this data enterprise-wide to maintain compliance with applicable regulations and permits. We also follow a standardized approach for asset construction, operation and maintenance to minimize air emissions. The Williams Environmental Assessment Program establishes a process for conducting internal audits of air emissions compliance. We calculate and report annual emissions from our facilities to the applicable regulatory agencies in accordance with permit requirements. We provide air quality permit training for employees who maintain our facilities and support capital projects. Tracking air releases from our operations allows us to evaluate our performance and identify opportunities for improvement. At the end of 2020, Williams set a goal to reduce total agency reportable spills and releases in 2021 by 10%. However, the company experienced a 43% increase in quantity of reportable spills and releases in 2021. This increase resulted from a combination of unprecedented freezing temperatures in Texas and Louisiana at the beginning of 2021 and improved reporting fidelity in states with the lowest reporting thresholds. We aim to reduce reportable spills and releases in the future, setting a goal for 2022 to reduce reportable spills and releases by 10% from 2021 levels. For information on Williams’ Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) performance, along with strategies and procedures for reducing LOPC year-over-year, see Spill Performance.We conduct regular assessments to identify opportunities for reducing our operational emissions. For example, Williams was one of the first midstream companies to install selective catalytic reduction technology on new, natural gas-fired turbine compressors to better control nitrogen oxides (NOX) emissions. The specialized turbine design results in ultra-low NOX emission rates. In 2021, we retired and replaced 10 of our legacy natural gas combustion reciprocating compressor engines with the new, natural gas-fired turbine compressors. As a result, we experienced significant reductions of permitted emissions by approximately 3,200 tons of NOX, 650 tons of carbon monoxide, 150 tons of volatile organic compounds and 40 tons of formaldehyde per year. The turbine compressors help transport clean natural gas using technologies that go beyond current air quality regulations. Air EmissionsBar graph depicting Williams' air emissions in tons for 2020 and 2021. Emissions of nitrogen oxides were 30,191 in 2020 and 28,177 in 2021. Emissions of volatile organic compounds were 8,757 in 2020 and 7,975 in 2021. Emissions of hazardous air pollutants were 2,444 in 2020 and 2,088 in 2021. Emissions of particulate matter were 1,057 in 2020 and 1,024 in 2021. Emissions of sulfur dioxide were 421 in 2020 and 430 in 2021.Photograph of pipeline infrastructure with the New York City skyline in the background, separated by a river.A valve site on our Transco pipeline in New York City.Male Williams employee pointing to a switch in a circuit box at the Transco compressor station.Training Specialist Michael Watkins at the Transco compressor station in North Carolina.Avoidance of NOX and CO2e Emissions for Williams Compressor Station ProjectsBar graph depicting the avoidance of nitrogen oxides and carbon dioxide equivalent emissions for Williams' compressor station projects. The Regional Energy Access Expansion avoids 10 tons of NOX emissions per year and 35,000 tons of CO2e emissions per year. The Southside Reliability Enhancement avoids 45 tons of NOX emissions per year and 140,000 tons of CO2e emissions per year. The Commonwealth Energy Connector avoids 30 tons of NOX emissions per year and 90,000 tons of CO2e emissions per year. The Emissions Reduction Program at Compressor Station 100 avoids 25 tons of NOX emissions per year and 70,000 tons of CO2e emissions per year. Plus a reduction of 350 tons/year NOX and 150,000 tons/year CO2e from the replacement of three legacy natural gas-fired turbine compressors.We continue to invest financially in optimizing system-level efficiency and reliability to achieve reduced emissions. Our investments include projects targeted at consolidating volumes into fewer compressor stations, optimizing running units and removing unneeded leased units. For example, in 2020 and 2021, we eliminated the use of 43 compressor units in our Central operating area to create operating efficiencies. These compressor units comprised approximately 60,042 horsepower, and removing them resulted in monthly savings of nearly $438,689 in associated leased compression savings. We anticipate that our efforts to optimize capacity will not negatively affect customer-impacted volume metrics. Due to the success of these projects, Williams saw a decrease in our emissions, along with an increase in operational safety and revenue.Williams is committed to reducing air emissions through modernization programs focused on retiring and replacing legacy equipment. Our Emissions Reduction Program (ERP) is a voluntary, multi-year, interstate natural gas transmission infrastructure investment project that aims to significantly reduce Transco and Northwest Pipeline compressor station NOX and methane emissions by replacing legacy natural gas-fired compressor equipment. Williams will replace the retired horsepower with a combination of modern, low NOX-emitting natural gas-fired turbines and electric motor drive (EMD) compression equipped with compressor vent gas reduction systems. We project that these upgrades will reduce Williams’ system-wide transmission sector NOX emissions by over 75% and compressor methane emissions by approximately 50% from recent levels.In addition, Williams updated its Transco interstate natural gas transmission system alternatives evaluation process on compressor horsepower expansion and replacement projects. This process update strongly considers the feasibility of incorporating EMD compression over natural gas-fired compression, without significantly affecting system reliability. This strategy will not only mitigate GHG and criteria pollutant emissions at compressor stations but will better position the company to reduce its Scope 2 GHG emissions as the electric utility grid transitions to renewable energy. For additional information on reducing GHG emissions, see Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions.Examples of ongoing compressor station projects that have approved an EMD compression alternative include those in the above graph.Purple wildflowers.Local wildflowers near Transco pipeline station 240 in New Jersey.Biodiversity & Land UseEnvironmental stewardship is core to Williams’ operations, and we understand that driving the clean energy economy includes safeguarding biodiversity. We continue to respond to the changing regulatory landscape of biodiversity and go beyond regulatory requirements to responsibly retire and remediate our assets through careful planning and management. Williams strives to preserve the environment for future generations by avoiding, minimizing and mitigating potential impacts on biodiversity and land use during routing, siting and construction.Biodiversity Management SASB EM-MD-160a.1; EM-MD-160a.2 Company-driven policies and local, state and federal regulations govern Williams’ biodiversity practices. We take care to protect the health of our local ecosystems, as guided by the International Finance Corporation’s performance standards on environmental and social sustainability. We follow the hierarchy of avoid, minimize and mitigate as required by permitting agencies on infrastructure development projects. Similar to our onshore efforts, Williams manages potential offshore impacts by developing projects to avoid, minimize and mitigate potential impacts to sensitive marine ecosystems and biodiversity.Our environmental analysis uses geographic information system (GIS) analyses, computer-based reviews and site-specific surveys to pinpoint sensitive environmental, cultural and historic areas. We pay special attention to streams and wetlands; rare, threatened or endangered species; historic properties; and culturally important sites. We initiate the analyses early in the project lifecycle to use the output, in combination with stakeholder feedback, to proactively develop avoidance, minimization or mitigation strategies that address any potential adverse effects from construction and operations.Headshot of Brian Nesvik.It is important for the Wyoming Game and Fish Department to recognize industry partners who strive to be responsible stewards of our natural resources and Wyoming’s wildlife. Williams’ commitment to wildlife extends beyond their own footprint by repeatedly inquiring about avenues to donate to other programs for Game and Fish and the State of Wyoming that support wildlife.BRIAN NESVIK, DIRECTOR, WYOMING GAME AND FISH DEPARTMENTWhen feasible, we design projects that use or parallel existing rights-of-way to minimize habitat fragmentation and avoid areas with high biodiversity. We develop plans in compliance with all applicable regulations, including those promulgated or enforced by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Fisheries, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. In 2021, 12.2% of land owned, leased and operated by Williams was within or near areas of protected conservation status or endangered species habitat, as determined by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN); Ramsar Wetlands of International Importance; United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization World Heritage Sites; and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The table below shows the number of IUCN red-listed species in 2021 within the counties where Williams operates.Williams works closely with state and federal agencies to minimize impacts if we cannot avoid sensitive areas by rerouting during the design phase. We collaborate with interest groups, biodiversity and land mapping experts, community organizations and land management agencies to develop appropriate mitigation plans. Standard mitigation measures include seasonal restrictions, minimizing construction footprints and implementing specialized construction methods. In 2021, we expanded our engagement with companies that provide GIS services to ensure we have the most accurately available public land use data in our Environment, Health and Safety Master Asset Viewer system. This data allows our team to properly minimize adverse effects on biodiversity.2021 International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List Species in Williams’ Areas of OperationPie chart showing the following data.129TOTAL SPECIES26	Critically Endangered43	Endangered30	Vulnerable14	Near Threatened16	Least ConcernTwo ducks taking flight above wetlands. McPherson Valley wetlands in McPherson, Kansas.Grassy field with a bridge intersecting a river in the background.Remediated land near Transco pipeline station 240 liquified natural gas storage facility storage facility in New Jersey.Land UseSASB EM-MD-160a.3 We believe that developing and responsibly operating natural gas infrastructure is vital to the sustainability of our company. Williams is committed to responsibly installing pipeline through construction and restoration best management practices. Williams is committed to appropriately retiring and remediating land used for our facilities and pipeline infrastructure projects. We have a long-standing goal to return land to its original state and create opportunities for beneficial reuse.As part of our land use strategy, we work to reduce the risk of landslides, which can potentially affect pipeline integrity and disrupt the environment. In the Northeast, where the terrain is extremely sloped and landslide-susceptible, Williams assesses landslide potential during route development on proposed pipelines following The Nature Conservancy (TNC) and other industry guidelines. We route pipelines around potential problem areas to the most reasonable extent possible. When applicable, we employ mitigation measures to reduce the risk of landslides, slips and erosion caused by tree-clearing and earthwork during construction and pipeline installation. Our internal landslide team also evaluates existing sites that pre-date TNC guidelines and develops site-specific mitigation and restoration plans to prevent and remediate landslides as necessary. In 2021, we continued to execute on our landslide avoidance and mitigation efforts by monitoring and remediating susceptible sites using field and aerial patrols coupled with annual light detection and ranging (LiDAR) surveys. As part of this effort, we employ best-in-class technologies such as aerial vehicles. In 2021, we allocated $4.2 million in capital to complete 17 landslide mitigation projects. For more information on Williams’ landslide management practices, see Pipeline Safety. Williams’ asset retirement and removal obligation review process is a planning mechanism that allows us to identify the potential environmental impacts and associated costs of retiring an asset. We initiate a property assessment and subsurface investigation before any demolition or abandonment activity as part of the process. The assessment findings help determine an appropriate approach for restoring land no longer used as part of our operations. Since integrating additional monitoring and restoration activities into our permit-tracking tool in 2020, we can better understand the performance of our post-construction restoration efforts.In 2021, Williams disturbed 602 acres of terrestrial land across all of Williams’ owned, leased and operated land. Additionally, we restored 2,625 acres of terrestrial land during the same reporting period, the rest of which will be restored in future years. When restoring land, we use native plants that support a diversity of pollinator species to preserve soil and water species. Our restoration plans meet state and local regulatory standards, and often include practices that exceed regulatory minimums. We continue to voluntarily implement restoration seed mixes at all new Northeast gathering locations and expansion projects companywide. Williams contributed $943,537 to The Conservation Fund to preserve and restore two properties in Lackawanna County and Bradford County, Pennsylvania. The land in Lackawanna County straddles a ridge between two high-quality streams that drain into public drinking water supplies, one of which is also a high-quality trout stream. As a result of this project, the property was transferred to the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources as an addition to the Pinchot State Forest, expanding it to more than 50,000 acres. The Bradford County property connects more than 5,600 acres of game land to Route 1040, providing habitat to local wildlife, and hunting opportunities for the community. In 2021, the Conservation Fund completed its restoration efforts by removing dilapidated structures on the land and implementing habitat improvements. 93active remediation sites managed by Williams’ environmental services team in 2021$31Menvironmental accrual for remediationSpill Performance SASB EM-MD-160a.4Williams implements robust operational requirements to uphold strong spill performance while meeting growing demand for clean energy in North America and around the world. We remain committed to preventing spills and releases throughout our operations. In cases where we do not meet our commitments, we focus on reporting our data transparently. We prioritize the health of the environment and the safety of the communities we serve by continually improving our systems and procedures for spill management.WIMS outlines spill prevention, control and countermeasure operating requirements, including company-wide procedures for preventing spills and mitigating potential spill impacts. These requirements help determine when to use spill plans and how to develop, implement and maintain effective plans. Our plans also address compliance with regulatory requirements for pollutant prevention at our owned and operated assets. If a spill occurs, we have processes and tools in place to control the spill and reduce its impact. We report spills to regulatory and community stakeholders, remediate resulting impacts, investigate root causes and subsequently improve program management and other controls to reduce the risk of future events.Williams manages multiple spill prevention and response plans both onshore and offshore. We test our spill response preparedness and capabilities through a comprehensive drill program that assesses Williams’ response to our designated “worst-case” discharges using real-time weather and conditions. We use a pre-determined scenario without informing the operations teams that engage in the drill. Our plans and drills facilitate Williams’ ability to protect sensitive local and coastal ecosystems and recover and properly manage discharged products.We use our preventive maintenance plan as an integral component of our spill reduction efforts. In addition, we use a safety and environmentally critical equipment checklist to designate critical equipment and prioritize preventive maintenance activities accordingly. We took this voluntary step in response to incidents experienced by other companies in the midstream sector. We work to implement best practices based on our own experiences, as well as those of our industry peers. We also maintain incident notification reporting and concern reporting procedures within WIMS to guide our notification and recordkeeping processes during potential or actual incidents. Williams manages environmental and safety incidents through Maximo, our Incident Management System. Maximo collects incident response data for non-events, such as hazard identifications; events with no negative consequences, such as near- misses; and events with negative consequences, such as incidents. We refreshed these procedures and our risk severity evaluation criteria, publishing these updates in early January 2022 to create greater industry alignment and provide a more robust data source from which we can learn and continuously improve. Side profile of a Williams employee, wearing a hat and gloves, holding handrails while walking up a flight of stairs.Operations Supervisor Manager Jeff King at the Transco compressor station in North Carolina.A row of control switches with red indicator lights.A motor control center at the Pine Needle facility in North Carolina to help mitigate potential spills.In addition to establishing preventive controls and countermeasures for spills in our management systems, we focus on improving spill performance within our operations. We use tanks to store large quantities of hydrocarbon products, such as natural gas liquids. Williams has an extensive tank inspection and testing program that adheres to industry standards to prevent spills from our tanks. The program provides guidelines for tank inspections conducted by our personnel, as well as third-party certified tank inspectors. Additionally, at our Conway, Kansas, operations, we evaluate and rank brine transfer lines for release potential based on their transfer volume, engineering details and equipment age. Using our risk-ranking system, we continuously upgrade and replace our brine lines to reduce release potentials. We have data collection initiatives in place to investigate, mitigate and share lessons learned to reduce the likelihood of a spill. We measure and report a near-miss-to-incident ratio to increase our analysis of spills and identify leading indicators of more severe event occurrences. We continue to focus on the identification of high-potential near-misses to drive awareness of underlying hazards and reduce the number of high-severity incidents. In 2021, Williams recorded 80 total agency reportable spills and releases, experiencing a 43% increase from 2020. The increase is a result of the extremely cold temperatures in Texas and Louisiana at the beginning of 2021 and improved reporting fidelity in states with the lowest reporting thresholds. Our total spills included two agency reportable hydrocarbon spills to soil and water, equaling 46 barrels of hydrocarbons in total. Williams had zero reportable hydrocarbon spills in unusually sensitive areas in 2021. When constructing pipelines, Williams occasionally uses horizontal directional drilling (HDD), a trenchless construction method, to cross environmentally sensitive areas. To evaluate HDD feasibility and implement best practices, Williams employs HDD subject matter experts to oversee all aspects of the HDD project lifecycle. We also use industry best practices and standards when evaluating, designing and constructing HDDs on pipeline infrastructure projects. In 2021, these efforts led to zero reportable inadvertent drilling fluid releases to environmentally sensitive areas during projects where we used the HDD construction method. Williams continues to put greater education and focus on Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC), such as through the inclusion of our LOPC reduction goal in our Annual Incentive Program. We recorded a 14% reduction in total LOPC events year-over-year at the end of 2021, exceeding our target of 10%. Our enterprise and franchise LOPC focus teams meet regularly to discuss LOPC performance, review incidents and investigations, and share lessons learned and successful strategies company-wide to reduce both total and high-severity LOPC events. We implemented work practices such as voluntary LDAR and regular maintenance of identified components, producing a direct line of site into equipment reliability and LOPC reductions. Additionally, Williams also implemented cost-effective projects to minimize vibration and fatigue on rotating equipment. For more information on reducing emissions, please see Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Air Emissions.Water StewardshipWe take care to preserve the environment for future generations while improving current living standards. We understand water stewardship is an important topic for several stakeholders, including local communities and nongovernmental organizations. We adhere to all applicable environmental laws, regulations and permit conditions related to water. Our internal Environmental Assessment Program (EAP) helps identify corrective actions to enhance compliance assurance.Williams believes water is a precious resource, and we work to protect it during construction, operation and asset retirement through our environmental inspection and compliance programs. We also recognize the importance of effectively managing our water use when developing an asset or planning a new pipeline right-of-way. As part of our detailed routing and construction process, we thoughtfully review routing options to minimize environmental impacts, including water resources. Throughout this process, we seek to avoid construction through forested wetlands and sensitive streams. We also aim to reduce disturbances through practices such as reducing workspaces in or near water features, using specialized construction techniques (i.e., bore or HDD) where feasible and implementing soil erosion and sediment controls.We focus on preserving water quality by adhering to stringent water quality standards and permitting requirements established by federal and state regulatory agencies. All water we use must meet acceptable standards before returning to the ground or surface. In 2021, Williams began utilizing its 0.86-acre landfarm at our Dilley Amine facility for the land application of reverse osmosis reject water. This approach eliminates transportation and disposal needs while reducing costs and associated environmental hazards. While water consumption is not a large part of pipeline operations, we most commonly use it for hydrostatic testing during commissioning. In 2021, we used approximately 7.9 million gallons of water for hydrostatic testing, most of which we reused or returned to the same basin from which it originated. Williams used about 44% less water in 2021 than in 2020 due to lower construction activity in 2021. We focus on reducing the amount of wastewater produced from cooling towers designed to cool the circulating water used in our processing plants. In support of this effort, Williams invested in a process modernization project in 2019 at Station 240 in Carlstadt, New Jersey. We are proud to announce that 2021 marked the first year of zero wastewater discharge from the station. As Williams increasingly evaluates green hydrogen products, we understand that water may become a critical resource and are proactively developing responsible water resource management practices. Carbon-free hydrogen generation depends on water during the electrolysis process, which uses electricity to split water compounds into hydrogen and oxygen. Williams also supports broad-based research and initiatives on water-related topics. Throughout 2021, Williams continued to follow the work of the Arbuckle Study Group, formed at the direction of the Kansas governor, in response to increased injection zone pressures on the Arbuckle formation. The Arbuckle Study Group’s data indicates that the increased injection volumes developed a pressure front on the Arbuckle formation, allowing it to move north from Oklahoma. Williams is monitoring how the group’s findings may shape future injection practices.We are also a member of the Consortium to Study Trends in Seismicity (CSTS), a public-private project to study seismicity trends in Kansas. Information obtained through the CSTS project helps improve our understanding of the increases in seismicity in Kansas and Oklahoma observed since 2013. As a member of the CSTS, Williams provides funding for the project and reviews data reports prior to publication.Aerial photograph of a winding river intersecting tree-lined mountains with sparse infrastructure and roads.Minimizing impacts to water resources at Leidy South Expansion site in Pennsylvania.Waste ManagementWilliams designs our approach to managing nonhazardous and hazardous waste from our operations to mitigate environmental impacts, promote safe operations and protect human health. Williams generates waste during the transportation, gathering, processing and treating processes. Common types of waste generated at our facilities and pipeline systems include used oil, pipeline coating, scrap metal and contaminated soils. While waste represents a relatively small portion of our overall environmental impact, we focus on proactively reducing our operational waste and effectively managing the waste we do generate. WIMS establishes a standardized process for managing hazardous and nonhazardous waste at company sites including characterization, storage, handling, packaging, transportation and disposal. We manage operational waste through prescriptive measures, including placing waste in designated, labeled containers, maintaining waste storage areas, conducting inspections and disposing of waste based on all applicable regulations. Our environmental specialists assist operations with waste classification, disposal and reporting. Additionally, we evaluate waste management practices and performance as a part of the EAP for enhanced compliance assurance. These measures, combined with training and compliance audits, form the basis of our waste management approach.In 2021, we incorporated new and updated guidelines regarding operational waste into WIMS. Our new Operating Guideline for Aerosol Can Management provides clear steps to characterize, manage and dispose of waste aerosol cans. The guideline includes the proper labeling, storage, and disposal requirements to comply with state and federal regulations. In addition, Williams updated the Operating Guideline for Hydrovac Slurry to allow reuse of the slurry when following specific protocols. Hydrovac slurry is a waste-like product composed of soil and water generated from construction projects. We can now reduce the disposal volume of the waste-like slurry using our reuse alternative. We require every construction project to develop a Hydrovac Slurry and Excess Fill Materials Management Plan before initiating construction.As part of our commitment to conduct business in a safe and reliable manner, we manage chemical inventory reporting through the WIMS operating requirement for Tier II reporting and hazard communication. Environmental specialists annually prepare and submit Tier II chemical inventory reports to the appropriate regulatory agencies. Williams’ Safety Data Sheets are publicly available to provide interested stakeholders with detailed information that meets local, state and federal requirements. For more information about Williams’ Safety Data Sheets, visit our website.Williams diverted approximately 23,000 tons of salt-impacted soil from landfill disposal since January 2017.Male Williams employee looking down while turning a large yellow valve wheel, with the New York City skyline in the background.Operations Technician Michael Pyskaty at a valve site in New York City.Base of the Williams Tower in Houston.WILLIAMS WILL BE THEREAchieving LEED Certification In 2021, Williams’ Facilities and Construction team undertook an initiative to modernize and remodel 10 floors of our Houston office building. The Modernization Program aims to achieve LEED gold certification by:.	Reducing volatile organic compounds and other toxic materials during construction.	Recycling, donating and selling old furniture.	Increasing use of natural light.	Integrating mechanical, electrical and plumbing controls to reduce electricity and water use .	Installing EnergyStar® rated appliances We plan to renovate two floors every six months, and anticipate completing renovations and submitting documentation for LEED certification by December 2023. As part of this initiative, Williams is making significant efforts to divert waste from landfills. From May to December 2021, Williams accumulated 2,000 cubic yards of waste, including trash, concrete, sheetrock, metal, wood, plastic and cardboard. By the end of 2021, Williams recycled 86.6% of the waste produced, or 1,731 cubic yards of waste.In 2021, we initiated a mercury evaluation program across the Transco system to identify receipt points that are sources of elevated mercury concentrations in gas and gas condensate. The mercury contamination can accumulate in the piping and vessels of our operating assets, generating hazardous waste. We perform mercury-in-gas sampling at our key receipt points, storage facilities and mainline compressor stations. We continue to develop a streamlined approach for collecting and analyzing pipeline liquid and sludge samples for mercury during routine maintenance operations. In addition, we perform x-ray fluorescence surveys for wall-bound mercury in piping and vessels that are removed from service or in need of a repair. Through these efforts, we safely and appropriately manage the exposure risks. As for radioactive waste, we monitor evolving regulations around Technologically Enhanced Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials (TENORM) and continue to analyze our waste streams for radionuclides where applicable. We perform TENORM surveys on piping and vessels prior to opening or removal from service. The geologic formations that contain gas deposits also contain naturally occurring radioactive materials, which may result in TENORM accumulation within our piping and vessels. The concentrations of TENORM in the natural gas waste streams do not impact the safety of natural gas used for electricity, heating and cooking. As regulations develop, we will follow management and disposal requirements that impact our waste streams. We continuously seek waste minimization opportunities while ensuring natural gas reliability. Our underground hydrocarbon storage facilities in Conway, Kansas, operate caverns developed in natural salt formations to store millions of barrels of natural gas liquids. The Kansas Department of Health and Environment authorized a waste minimization process as an alternative to landfill disposal of salt-impacted earthen materials. Williams practices this emplacement process of returning natural materials to the subsurface. As a result, Williams diverted approximately 23,000 tons of salt-impacted soil from landfill disposal since January 2017. In addition, emplacement of these solids provides stabilization of caverns that are no longer in service for natural gas liquid storage.In our corporate offices, we work with third-party waste handlers to recycle paper, plastic and cardboard. In 2021, our Tulsa headquarters collected and recycled an estimated 33.55 tons of materials. We increased our recycling volumes due to changes in our Records Information Management process, which requires the shredding and recycling of confidential documents. To promote sustainable practices in our corporate offices, we encourage employees to avoid printing documents when possible. As a result, we decreased the number of printed pages by 14% in 2021 compared to 2020, which is equivalent to saving approximately 311 trees and 728,180 gallons of water. In addition, Williams recycles and donates electronic hardware, such as computers and electronic accessories.We take additional waste reduction actions by assessing and identifying facilities with the greatest opportunity to switch from existing lighting technology to more efficient LED technology. In 2021, we began replacing existing light bulbs with LED lighting helping to improve our waste management and energy efficiency.Three Williams employees walking side-by-side next to pipeline infrastructure.From left to right: Operations Technician Josh Moore; Operations Technician Eric Gallihugh;
Senior Operations Technician Sean Lindenfelser at the Transco compressor station in North Carolina.