Building an Empowered WorkforceWilliams believes that we create long-term value by conducting our business ethically and creating a culture of respect. For more than a century, we have built a reputation as a responsible and dependable business that delivers on its promises. As we look toward the next several decades, we know our employees are our most valuable resource. Williams has a longstanding commitment to attracting, developing and retaining the very best talent in the industry. Two female Williams employees smiling at each other while sitting at a table and looking at a map.Commercial Contract Analyst Robin Valsin and Market Intelligence Analyst Stephanie Adams.Diversity & Inclusion GRI 103-1We know that to be the best-in-class operator of critical infrastructure supporting a clean energy economy, we must refuse to stand still, changing as necessary to meet new challenges; and attracting, retaining and developing the very best talent in the industry. Providing an inclusive culture where everyone feels their contributions are valued and welcomed is imperative to unlocking the full potential of our employees and our business. At Williams, Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) is not a program or human resources function, but a culture — based on real people — running through every facet of our business.100%of employees are required to complete sexual harassment training each year to recognize and avoid the types of behaviors that contribute to an uncomfortable work environmentGovernanceGRI 103-2; 103-3 Williams’ leadership embraces a diverse and inclusive workforce. Our chief executive officer’s (CEO) pledge of support for the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Coalition outlines a specific set of actions that he will take to cultivate a trusting environment in which our employees feel comfortable and empowered to have conversations about D&I. These actions include implementing and encouraging ongoing dialogue, and sharing strategic inclusion and diversity plans with our board of directors. Our senior vice president and chief human resources officer (CHRO) is responsible for D&I at Williams. The CHRO regularly reports directly to our CEO and annually to our board of directors on D&I efforts. Both senior executives also sit on the Diversity and Inclusion Council, which serves as the governing body over enterprise-wide D&I opportunities. Williams’ CEO chairs the Council, which includes members such as our executive officer team, organizational and operations leaders, and individual employees selected via a self-nomination process. The Diversity & Inclusion Council intentionally includes representation from diverse geographic regions, leadership levels, functional areas, and demographics. The Council created a comprehensive view of our current workforce and developed an internal metrics dashboard to help identify gaps, track progress and prioritize improvements in hiring and retention. We published our first internally-focused D&I Report in 2021. We continue to provide visibility and promote awareness into our diversity metrics by publishing our second annual D&I Report on our website. We further improved the transparency of our diversity disclosures by releasing our EEO-1 Survey Data reports externally for the first time in our D&I Report. Our EEO-1 Survey results provide a demographic breakdown of our workforce data by job categories, gender, race and ethnicity. We also improved our efforts towards D&I by clearly articulating our strategy and creating a roadmap to increase employee understanding and engagement. We continue to benchmark against our industry and other employers to help inform future recruitment and retention strategies. We plan to enhance talent acquisition efforts by defining and implementing recruitment strategies that increase diverse representations across the organization and in leadership roles. Williams fosters an authentic workplace through our policies reinforcing D&I. Our Code of Business Conduct includes expectations for creating a positive work environment. Williams’ Equal Employment Opportunity Policy outlines our approach to providing equal employment and advancement opportunities for all. Our Prohibition of Workplace Discrimination and Harassment Policy defines our commitment to preventing workplace discrimination and harassment. We require our employees to demonstrate their continued understanding of these policies through our annual Code of Business Conduct and Harassment trainings. Williams communicates diversity-related policies to employees through our intranet, emails and face-to-face or virtual team meetings. Resources & Training Through education and leadership accountability, Williams demonstrates a commitment to a high-performing workforce where all individuals feel respected and valued for their contributions. Williams believes creating an inclusive culture helps spark innovation and collaboration, bringing out the best in our people and driving business success. We provide a variety of tools and resources to help employees and leaders promote an inclusive culture.Our employees have access to the Williams D&I resource library to help them facilitate difficult conversations, at work and home, about a variety of topics including racial injustice and discrimination. Resources also include a Leader Inclusion Playbook, containing readings and topical webinars to help leaders navigate conversations about inclusion with their teams. Our D&I feedback form captures employee thoughts and suggestions on fostering an inclusive environment at Williams.Employees use our educational platform, Catalyst, to find additional tools and resources that stimulate meaningful conversations, drive social awareness and promote allyship across the company. Our corporate membership with Catalyst also allows each employee to register with their work email address to access all content, free of charge, including research, webinars and exercises. In 2021, Williams required all formal leaders to complete D&I training on inclusive communication and management of diverse teams. Approximately 90% of current leaders completed this training in 2021, with additional course offerings added in 2022 for leaders hired or promoted since year-end. Additionally, we launched an optional enterprise-wide training through LinkedIn Learning for individual contributors. Approximately 400 individual contributors completed training in 2021, providing feedback for potential broader enterprise rollout. We also encouraged employees to participate in McKinsey Black Leadership programs, which help equip Black employees with the capabilities, mindsets, behaviors and network to help them achieve their professional aspirations.We maintained our quarterly enterprise-wide panel events called Candid Conversations, designed to encourage dialogue by removing barriers and allowing employees to develop a deeper understanding of our diverse backgrounds. In 2021, we held four Candid Conversations events, with an average of 275 employees participating per event. These events included discussions on multi-generational collaboration, organizational gender partnerships, efforts to combat anti-Asian discrimination, and mental health. Our employees continued to use our D&I Microsoft Teams channel as a safe space to engage in conversation and dialogue. We recognized a leader who champions inclusion with our annual leadership award, and created an additional award category to recognize an individual contributor who champions inclusion, specifically by creating a safe environment that allows others to bring their authentic self to work.In 2021, we reinvigorated our employee resource groups (ERGs) with the goal of driving membership and inclusion across the enterprise. Our ERGs provide formal and grassroots opportunities for dialogue, information sharing and networking to promote a more inclusive culture for all employees. Current employee resource groups include Asian Pacific Islander, Black, Latin, LGBTQ+, Men Advocating Real Change, Working Parents, Veterans, Young Professionals, Women of Williams and Native, with over 1,400 memberships. These groups function in a flexible and responsive way to the changing needs of our organization and our employees. Employee committees also help facilitate new initiatives and growth opportunities. For example, an employee-led Black History Month committee planned our enterprise-wide Black History Month program.We know that more work needs to be done. Looking forward, Williams plans to further develop our ERGs to create greater collaboration across the organization. We plan to develop an ERG senior leadership sponsorship program. Additionally, we will continue to create spaces for employee-led community events aligned with our D&I initiatives. We plan to improve employee recognition of leaders and individual contributors who champion inclusion. We also aim to provide greater visibility into learning and development and promotional opportunities. Finally, we hope to explore opportunities to provide diverse employees with capabilities, mindsets, behaviors and networks to help them achieve their professional aspirations.Female Williams employee smiling while sitting at a table.Director of Market Intelligence and Strategy Jaclyn Presnal at Williams headquarters in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Employee RepresentationGRI 405-1 As part of our D&I efforts, Williams strives for diverse employee representation at every level of our talent management practices and employee development programs. We are committed to creating an inclusive culture and environment where all employees have an equal opportunity to advance into leadership positions. Both women and underrepresented race and ethnicity groups continue to increase as a percentage of our total workforce and representation in formal leadership.We emphasize D&I during all development conversations and succession planning initiatives. In 2021, we aimed to increase the percentage of women and underrepresented race and ethnicity groups in leadership roles. We maintained a 100% internal fill rate for all leadership positions within Williams for 2021, focusing on internal talent mobility, promotion and diversity. In 2021, 30% of our leadership team was female or an underrepresented race or ethnicity. Our female leadership representation increased from 18% to 21% from 2020 to 2021, while leadership representation for employees of underrepresented race and ethnicity increased from 10% in 2020 to 14% in 2021. We continued our long-standing practice of maintaining gender diversity on our board by adding two new female directors in 2020 and 2021. See Corporate Governance for more information about the diversity of our board of directors and senior leadership.Williams works to cast a wide net in recruiting and considers applicants from diverse backgrounds for each position. Inclusive hiring practices, such as masking candidate profiles, adapting our job description language, constantly reviewing our candidate screening criteria and evolving our interview guides are some of the ways in which Williams drives our commitment to recruiting and hiring diverse talent. We continue to offer a broader selection of identifiers for employees to select in our human resources system’s self-identification process. Options include race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, preferred gender pronoun and ERG affinity. In doing so, we facilitate broader diversity reporting at the enterprise level and better employee engagement.We partner with universities and technical schools to support education and internship opportunities for diverse students. In 2021, we enhanced our talent acquisition efforts by defining, implementing and driving diversity-based recruitment strategies in our early career programs. These strategies included collaborating with the Williams Diversity and Inclusion Council, Williams’ ERGs and the talent acquisition team to expand our list of strategic schools to include Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). We added two HBCUs to our university partnership network prior to the 2021 fall recruiting season. Additionally, we updated our strategic giving for university and technical school recruiting, with a renewed focus on diverse programs. For additional information on our hiring and development practices, see Employee Attraction, Retention & Development.95 out of 100 rating received by Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index in 2021Two male Williams employees in hard hats and protective eyewear, speaking with each other in front of machinery at the Williams Transco Station.Lead Operations Technician David Adams and Operations Technician Brian Hauff at the Transco station in Virginia.Williams 2021 Diversity Data[1][1].Underrepresented ethnicity & race refers to employees of the following race/ethnicity: American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Two or More Races. Underrepresented Ethnicity & Race at WilliamsPie chart showing the following data.16.25%	Underrepresented Ethnicity and Race83.75%	WhiteUnderrepresented Ethnicity & Race in Management at WilliamsPie chart showing the following data.13.76%	Underrepresented Ethnicity and Race86.24%	WhiteGender Diversity at WilliamsPie chart showing the following data.21.72%	Female78.28%	MaleGender Diversity in Management at WilliamsPie chart showing the following data.20.95%	Female79.05%	MaleMale Williams employee wearing a hard hat and eye protection, looking down while reading a meter. Product Owner Nathan Carlson at station 240 just outside of New York City.Employee Attraction, Retention & Development GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3Employee Attraction For over a century, Williams has provided the U.S. with clean, reliable and safe natural gas. We attribute our operational and strategic success, in part, to our ability to attract the best talent in the industry. We leverage various recruiting strategies to hire candidates aligned with our business needs. We use recruitment platforms including external job boards, our Williams Careers site, career fairs, university programming and community partnerships. We also offer a Talent Scout Incentive program to broaden Williams’ candidate pool through employee referrals. In 2021, we focused on building upon and improving our inclusive hiring processes, particularly by increasing diverse talent in the recruitment and application stages. We implemented masked candidate screening in our human resources system. Masked screening encourages reviewers to focus on job-relevant information by masking potentially biasing information like name, graduation year and home address among others, to minimize unconscious bias in candidate selection. We also updated our interview guides to align with Williams’ Core Competencies and to include D&I-focused questions. We launched training for hiring managers, focusing on inclusivity in the interview process and diversifying our interview panels when possible. Additionally, we expanded the use of Textio, a writing-augmentation platform that helps identify hidden biases in writing, to draft more inclusive job descriptions and employment communications. Looking forward, we hope to further improve awareness, education and accountability by measuring new Leadership Competencies: Values of Diversity and Effective Team Building.Williams partners with universities and technical schools in the U.S. to recruit for entry-level opportunities and paid internships. In 2021, 56 students joined us as interns from 25 universities and technical schools, spanning 13 states. We added five new universities to our list of partner schools. We also analyzed the proximity of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and added two HBCU partner schools — North Carolina A&T and Langston University — to our university internship and full-time hiring recruiting programs.We continue to partner with Genesys Works, an organization that provides pathways to career success for high school students in underserved communities. These students gain tools for success as they develop meaningful relationships with Williams mentors and learn professional skills to work in a corporate environment. Since 2011, 87 high school students interned at Williams through this program, with 100% receiving acceptance to college and approximately 95% attending college. Even with an increase in remote work, we retained our interns and created new ways for them to contribute remotely. Veterans gain exceptional experience and rigorous technical training through the military, making them ideal candidates for positions at Williams. These skills directly align with our need for adaptability, quick learning, accountability and effective project execution. We recruit military veterans through virtual career fairs, targeted social media campaigns, virtual information sessions and direct partnerships. We recruit veterans for positions at all levels in the organization and, due to our efforts, more than 8% of Williams employees in 2021 were veterans. In addition to military leave, Williams pays employees the difference between their Williams pay and military pay, and continues to provide benefits for up to 12 months of military leave.Two female Williams employees smiling at each other while standing in an office.WILLIAMS WILL BE THERETulsa Mayor’s Pay Equity Pledge to Ensure Pay Equality for WomenIn 2021, Williams joined other Tulsa-based companies by signing the Tulsa Mayor’s Pay Equity Pledge, created in partnership with the Mayor’s Commission on the Status of Women in 2021. Williams already incorporated the steps outlined in the pledge into our practices, not just in Tulsa but in all our locations across the nation. Williams continues to conduct annual pay equity analyses to promote the company’s equal employment opportunity policy. Additionally, we do not include salary history questions in our application process. We promote, and in some cases require, training programs that focus on removing biases, promoting inclusive hiring practices and strengthening an inclusive and welcoming work culture. We believe these practices enable us to treat all candidates fairly, regardless of their gender or race, and provide compensation based on skills and experience rather than salary history. Additionally, adding our support behind this pay equality initiative encourages other companies to follow our example.Headshot of Debbie Cowan.We believe that following best practices and creating a culture of belonging is the right way to run our business and treat our employees.DEBBIE COWAN, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER AT WILLIAMSEmployee Retention GRI 404-3Retaining talent has never been more important as Americans across industries quit jobs at a record pace during the second half of 2021. We take pride in our high-performing culture and low turnover rate, which highlights the importance of investing in our people so they can reach their full potential. We employ approximately 4,800 people across the U.S. and strive to create a safe, inclusive workplace where every employee feels valued, heard and engaged to reach their full potential. We support our employees in their professional and personal lives, finding that the support for our employees reflects back in their contributions towards our business success.Our retention efforts, which include professional development opportunities and a leading benefits package, contributed to a voluntary turnover rate of 6% in 2021. We had a 100% retention rate for employees that took paid parental leave in 2021. Additionally, we expanded our employee benefits to include hybrid remote work arrangements, understanding the need for improved work-life flexibility for our employees.We conduct regular employee surveys to identify Williams’ strengths and opportunities from the employee perspective. The survey results help us evaluate and continuously improve our approach to employee engagement. In 2021, we implemented a COVID-19 pulse survey to assess employee comfort with returning in-person to our offices. Additionally, our enterprise Voice of Williams survey collected employee feedback and engagement on a broad range of topics including trust, career development, leadership quality and team dynamics. Our 2021 survey received an 86% participation rate, of which 74% of employees are actively engaged. We determine engagement based on factors such as employee satisfaction, perceived support and perceptions of leadership, to name a few.We encourage employees to engage in open dialogue regarding their professional development through regular one-on-one meetings with supervisors and during formal performance reviews. We measure performance through the results associated with attaining annual business goals, operational and functional area strategies and personal development plans. Additionally, we evaluate observable skills and behaviors based on our defined competencies that contribute to workplace effectiveness and career success. In 2021, 100% of employees received a performance assessment and 10.5% received a promotion. Williams’ internal human resources system allows employees to view and apply to all currently posted requisitions. In 2021, we filled 39% of all open positions from within, including 100% of leadership positions.2021 Employee Age DistributionPie chart showing the following data.9%	Under 30 Years Old 60%	30–50 Years Old31%	Over 50 Years OldPROVIDING COMPETITIVE EMPLOYEE BENEFITSWilliams provides eligible employees with a comprehensive total rewards program aimed at protecting current and future physical, emotional and financial health. In addition to a base salary, our program includes an all-employee Annual Incentive Program (AIP), a range of retirement benefits and a health and wellness program. In 2020, a third party assessed our benefits package on whether our plans and programs met the needs of our diverse workforce. Their assessment showed that our benefits program exceeds the benchmarks for both our industry segment and the energy industry as a whole. We continue to improve upon and diversify our benefits, demonstrating our long-term commitment to our employees. Our employees can access benefits such as company-paid life insurance, disability coverage and six weeks paid parental leave for both birth and non-birth parents. We also provide breastfeeding mothers with access to designated lactation facilities. Additionally, more than 95% of Williams’ employees saved for retirement through our 401(k) plan. Whether or not they use the Williams 401(k) plan, all employees receive company-paid retirement benefits.We recognize and reward our employees who play a critical role in our company’s success. Williams’ discretionary AIP offers incentives based on company-wide performance, individual performance and select metrics to drive business results, enhance collaboration and motivate employees. Our AIP includes financial and environmental, social and governance (ESG) metrics. In 2021, we continued the High Potential Near Miss to Incident Ratio and Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) Events ESG metrics that were introduced in 2020, each weighted at 5% of total performance — for employees, including our executive officers. These metrics enabled us to continue making improvements over 2020 in our ESG reporting, processes and results.In 2022, we updated our AIP ESG metrics, weighting each metric at 5%, totaling 15% of AIP performance. We replaced Near Miss to Incident Ratio with Behavioral Near Miss to Incident Ratio to guide our learning culture by seeking input, validation and peer-to-peer feedback to further prevent at-risk behaviors. We retained the LOPC Events Reduction metric to continue building on our great efforts and performance and to reinforce processes that drive high data quality and reduction in total events. We also added the Methane Emissions Reduction metric, directly contributing to progressing our 2030 climate commitment goal.Giving our employees a stake in our company motivates them to take ownership for our success and seek opportunities to strengthen our business. We therefore provide an employee stock purchase plan for employees to purchase company stock at an 15% discount. In 2021, 40% of eligible employees elected to participate in the program.MAINTAINING RELATIONSHIPS WITH UNION LABOR GRI 102-41Organized labor serves as an important voice advocating for the necessary expansion of domestic energy infrastructure. We have strong relationships with unions in many of our pipeline areas. Williams recognizes the right of employees under the National Labor Relations Act to, among other things, organize, form, join or assist unions and engage in protected, concerted activities. Because we encourage a direct partnership with our employees, we do not believe in the need for an outside group to speak on their behalf. In 2021, none of Williams’ employees were represented under collective bargaining agreements. For our Leidy South project, nearly 80% of the construction was completed under contracts with companies that use organized labor. In 2021, trade unions sought out the opportunity to gain employment for members of their respective unions in the Regional Energy Access Expansion project. In 2021, Williams worked with six trade unions, including members of the Pipe Line Contractors Association, to enter a Memorandum of Understanding for the Regional Energy Access Expansion project. We estimate the project will create thousands of construction jobs and generate $295 million in labor income over its lifetime. For information on hiring local talent, see Economic Development.Portrait of a female Williams employee smiling. Staff Communications Specialist Nicole Nascenzi in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Employee Development Williams offers robust corporate and technical training programs coupled with strong employee engagement to support the professional development of our employees and long-term business value. We provide training opportunities that reflect an employee’s position, specific responsibilities and the local regulatory environment. In 2021, Williams’ employees completed an average of 48 hours of training, a majority of which covered compliance and technical topics. Other topics included leadership and development training, which we track through our learning management system. However, we are unable to track training offered by external parties. Field employees typically require more training than office-based personnel, due to the nature of their work. In total, employees completed 232,000 hours of corporate and technical training in 2021. Training expenditures increased in 2021 compared to 2020, primarily due to reduced COVID-19 restrictions allowing for travel and in-person training opportunities. We remain committed to the professional development and upskilling of our employees. In 2020, we launched the Employee Development Council, a cross-functional, cross-enterprise advisory board that partners with human resources to understand the needs of the business by providing input on and advocating for employee development initiatives at Williams. In 2021, Council members championed the implementation of the learning culture statement: At Williams, our ability to continuously learn, and transform that learning into action, drives results that give us the ultimate competitive advantage. Our learning culture encourages self-development to drive growth and employee engagement by leveraging internal and external expertise.In 2021, more than 150 operational and technical services employees collaborated to design 80 standardized training programs based on different disciplines. Through the creation of these training programs, the Operations Technician Career Development framework has become a robust and flexible model that seeks to improve career development and achievement.Our baseline leadership programs support current leaders by providing tools and training resources to promote success in their roles. In 2021, we added several programs to support learning and development. Employee Essentials is a learning program available to all employees, providing a foundational understanding of our business and career development. Additionally, Leader Essentials is a formal development program focused on baseline leadership fundamentals, featuring cross-functional discussion and knowledge application. Lastly, Exploring Leadership is a learning opportunity for individual contributors, focusing on the skills required for successful formal leadership at Williams by helping individual contributors determine if leadership is an aspiration and potential fit.Our early career professional development program enables post-undergraduate employees to participate in an intensive, three-year rotational or non-rotational program to build technical expertise at Williams. The program consistently achieves strong representation across diversity dimensions, helping build a robust pipeline of future talent. Over the last five years, on average, 33% of our early career program hires were from underrepresented race and ethnicity groups and 38% were female. Our early career program is one avenue to help us increase representation of diverse employees by bringing in new diverse talent. We also offer a Safety Leadership training program for executive leadership and directors as well as operations managers and supervisors. The program brings the Williams safety commitment to life by demonstrating the importance of leading by example and modeling safety behaviors and practices. For executive leadership and directors, this interactive and personalized course provides an opportunity to gain the knowledge and skills necessary to create and effectively deliver a safety leadership message and incorporate meaningful safety conversations in all daily tasks. For operations managers and supervisors, the course effectively engages and influences employees and contractors in difficult safety conversations and creates an environment that enables employees and contractors to advance the safety culture. In 2021, we successfully trained more than 400 leaders. For more information on safety at Williams, see Workforce Safety.SUCCESSION PLANNINGWilliams facilitates the development and growth of our employees by engaging in talent reviews and succession planning. We understand the importance of succession planning in assessing our organizational capability and guaranteeing ongoing talent capacity. Our Talent Assessment process enables us to evaluate talent across the company and calibrate accordingly. Additionally, the program provides managers with an opportunity to think strategically about the broader spectrum of development needs for the company and identify themes. Aligning these themes to the strategic priorities of the organization helps ensure that succession and development plans support the growth of individuals and the business. As part of our succession analysis, we also review the diversity demographics of our potential successor pool. 2021 Employee TrainingBar graph depicting corporate and technical training hours completed per employee and total corporate and technical training hours completed by employees from 2019 to 2021. Corporate and technical training hours completed per employee equaled 37 in 2019, 37 in 2020, and 48 in 2021. Total corporate and technical training hours completed by employees equaled 175,000 in 2019, 174,000 in 2020, and 232,000 in 2021.A male and female Williams employee facing each other and smiling, while leaning against a table. IT Business Systems Analyst Bradley Davis and Technical Specialist Suzanne Wong at Williams headquarters in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Ethics & Compliance SASB EM-MD-520a.1; GRI 102-16At Williams, we run our business with integrity and openness. Our employees and board of directors develop and follow effective policies, codes of conduct and training programs. Our commitment to upholding high standards of ethics and compliance is a key driver of our ability to operate a sustainable, profitable company. Our Core Values — Authentic, Safety Driven, Reliable Performers and Responsible Stewards — guide how we perform our work every day. We created a legacy of ethics and integrity with our customers, local communities, investors and other stakeholders by embodying these values. Williams’ Core ValuesAuthenticOur integrity cannot be compromised; for more than a century we’ve remained true to ourselves, striving to do the right thing, every time.Safety DrivenSafeguarding our people and neighbors is ingrained in our culture and fundamental to everything we do.Reliable PerformersWe stand behind our reputation as a dependable and trustworthy business that delivers on our promises.Responsible StewardsWe are dedicated to strengthening our people and communities and to protecting the environment.Code of Business ConductOur Code of Business Conduct (Code) sets the ethical conduct expectations for officers, directors and employees at all levels. It also applies to Williams subsidiaries and, in certain cases, our joint ventures. We leverage the Code to remain in compliance with all laws, avoid conflicts of interest, maintain a safe and inclusive workforce and report ethical concerns. As outlined in the Code, we strictly prohibit any act of corruption, including bribery, the making of facilitation payments, fraud, extortion, conflicts of interest and the giving or receiving of gifts designed to influence the recipient’s judgment. We periodically assess the Code and incorporate revisions when necessary. In 2021, we revised the language around anti-corruption and non-retaliation in the Code. All employees must annually complete Code of Business Conduct training. As part of this computer-based training, employees must acknowledge that they have read and understand the Code’s expectations. In addition, all leaders must complete an 11-question certification to confirm their understanding of Code expectations. New employees must complete the training within the first 30 days of employment. In 2021, 100% of our employees completed compliance and ethics training courses. We are updating our ethics and compliance trainings and corporate policies in response to Williams’ acquisition of Sequent Energy Management in the summer 2021.Governance & OversightThe Williams Ethics and Compliance program communicates and manages key elements of ethics and integrity, including our Core Values, Code and guidelines for reporting suspected violations. Williams’ chief ethics and compliance officer has oversight responsibility for our Ethics and Compliance program, and high-level personnel are responsible for the program effectiveness. Williams’ ethics and compliance team works closely with the legal department to regularly monitor enforcement activity by regulators, litigation activity and legislative activity. We issue internal communications and revise policies and training as appropriate to reflect regulatory developments.The Williams Ethics Advisory panel assesses the effectiveness of the Ethics and Compliance program and recommends enhancements as necessary. We incorporate comparative benchmark metrics into our annual assessment as part of the evaluation process. In coordination with the Ethics Advisory panel, internal subject matter experts and the internal audit team, we conduct an annual risk assessment to review compliance with our ethics policies. We engage third parties for external assessments of our Ethics and Compliance program. The program was last assessed in 2018, and we will potentially conduct an updated assessment in 2022. Annually, and when guidance such as the 2020 Department of Justice updated guidance becomes available, Williams’ Business Ethics Resource Center (BERC) and our chief ethics and compliance officer conduct an internal review of the Williams Ethics and Compliance program to evaluate current methods used to promote, monitor and enforce compliance with our policies and standards. We communicate the results of this review in an annual report to the Williams board of directors governance and sustainability committee. The BERC office also meets annually with Ernst & Young to discuss the program’s effectiveness.The Williams board of directors audit committee has established procedures for receiving, retaining and treating complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters. Williams was not involved in any pending or completed legal actions, fines or settlements in 2021 regarding bribery, corruption or anti-competitive violations. No legal actions regarding allegations of anti-competitive behavior or violations of anti-trust/monopoly legislation were brought against Williams in 2021. Williams remains subject to two outstanding putative class action lawsuits (filed in 2007 and 2009 and now consolidated) arising out of alleged manipulation of published gas price indices in 2000 through 2002. In January 2022, Williams settled a lawsuit filed by an individual in 2005 asserting identical allegations, and the settlement was disclosed in our Form 10-K. In the remaining putative class actions, we await a ruling on plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. Williams discontinued all price reporting in 2006. Williams provides regular training and has specific policies addressing market manipulation and antitrust.Ethics & Compliance Governance StructureDiagram depicting Williams' Ethics and Compliance Governance Structure. The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer is responsible for adopting, implementing and maintaining the Ethics and Compliance program for Williams. The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer oversees the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Compliance Officer and Business Ethics Resource Center. The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer reports to the Audit Committee and the Governance and Sustainability Committee. These two committees are overseen by the Board of Directors. The Ethics Advisory Panel is made up of high-level representatives from across the enterprise and meets regularly to oversee the effectiveness of the Ethics and Compliance program.Upward facing image from the side of a glass skyscraper.Williams Tower in Houston, Texas.Reporting Concerns GRI 102-17 We encourage our employees to report suspected violations of any law, regulation or company policy. It is against our policy for employees to engage in or tolerate retaliation or any form of harassment directed against an employee who reports a suspected problem in good faith. Williams offers several confidential mechanisms for reporting, including the Williams BERC, the Williams Action Line and our online ethics reporting site. Employees can access the Action Line 24 hours a day, seven days a week.We understand that employee confidentiality is critical for reporting incidents, which is why an independent third party operates the Action Line. We proactively communicate these resources through the Williams Ethics and Compliance program and on our internal and external websites. Additionally, the Williams board of directors receives quarterly updates regarding the Ethics and Compliance program.Williams evaluates all alleged violations of law or company policies to assess the need for and level of investigation. Williams determines the appropriate next steps and, where warranted, takes appropriate corrective action, up to and including dismissal. In 2021, we received 164 concerns through ethics reporting channels.2021 Number of Inquiries Received Through Ethics Reporting ChannelsPie chart showing the following data.164TOTAL INQUIRIES50	Management17	Action Line55	Human Resources1	Business Ethics Resources Center41	Other Reporting ChannelsPortrait of a Williams employee smiling while emptying a bag of mulch.Supply Chain Specialist Sam Swindell in Tulsa, Oklahoma.