Protecting People & Strengthening InfrastructureWilliams is committed to promoting a safety-first culture and operating our assets in a way that continuously exceeds industry standards. As we deliver the products needed to heat homes and generate electricity, we strive to do the right thing, every time. Aligned with our Core Values, we operate in a safety-driven manner that protects our employees and contractors and safeguards the public, while also protecting our assets.Workforce Safety GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 403-1; 403-2; 403-3; 403-4; 403-7; 403-8; 403-9We could not make clean energy happen without our dedicated employees and contractors, which is why Williams embeds personnel health and safety into everything we do. Williams genuinely cares about our employees; this is the foundation of our company culture. We know that operating safely is vital to preserving our long-term business success.The Williams Integrated Management System (WIMS) is how we put our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy into action. The management system serves as our company-wide platform to manage and reduce risks in our operations, including safety risks. Senior leadership within each operating area is responsible for implementing the appropriate operating requirements, project standards and site-specific procedures set forth through WIMS. The system aligns with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) requirements.At Williams, every employee and contractor has the authority to stop work, regardless of position or level of responsibility, if they suspect a hazard. Williams views the Stop Work Authority as the highest obligation an employee or contractor has to protect themselves and the people working beside them. To further our safety culture, we rolled out our Safety Commitment and Pillars in 2021 to increase focus on our safety culture and the behaviors we expect from our employees. For example, we focus on caring for others, holding each other accountable, executing with purpose, committing deeply to continued learning and making individual commitments. The environmental, health and safety committee within the board of directors is responsible for governance and oversight regarding environmental, health and safety matters. Our Environmental, Health and Safety Policy provides a proactive framework for integrating safety performance into our core business activities. Every employee and contractor is responsible for implementing this policy.Headshot of Mark Cluff.Our safety pillars give tangible actions and expectations for how our employees demonstrate their safety commitment. The pillars enable our employees to strengthen their own personal safety commitment through enterprise wide consistent expectations, vocabulary and mutual accountability. This is built on the foundation that we care about each other, our families and the communities we serve.MARK CLUFF, VICE PRESIDENT OF SAFETY & OPERATIONAL DISCIPLINE AT WILLIAMS Employee Total Recordable Incident RateBar graph depicting employee total recordable incident rate per 200,000 work hours from 2017 to 2021. The not COVID-19 related rate was 1.09 in 2017, 0.81 in 2018, and 0.55 in 2019. In 2020, the not COVID-19 related rate was 0.82 and the COVID-19 related rate was 0.23, totaling 1.06. In 2021, the not COVID-19 related rate was 0.73 and the COVID-19 related rate was 0.50, totaling 1.23.Williams’ disciplined approach to improving our safety culture and performance has proven long-term success with a 26% reduction in employee recordable injuries since 2017. For 2021, we saw an 18% increase in recordable injuries and illnesses, primarily due to COVID-19 cases. COVID-19 cases accounted for 41% of our total OSHA recordable incidents. We continue to strive for year-over-year improvement in our safety performance. Our continued focus on leading indicators, such as hazard recognition and near miss reporting, will drive our long-term journey for incident reduction.We maintain a strong safety culture by identifying, mitigating and communicating hazards and physical risks across the company. Williams expects every employee and contractor to report all incidents and near-misses related to personnel and process safety. To accelerate continuous improvement, Williams compiles lessons learned from across the company and communicates them to all employees. We share preliminary incident communications for both high-potential-severity and high-actual-severity incidents within a week to all employees to provide initial findings and key takeaway messages.Male Williams employee wearing a hard hat and eye protection.Operations Supervisor Grant Friddell at the Transco station in Virginia. Upholding Contractor Safety Achieving zero injuries and zero incidents is our primary goal at Williams’ worksites, including third-party suppliers and contractors. Williams maintains close communication with our diverse group of contractors to foster a safe work environment. Our standard contract language includes expectations for contractor and subcontractor safety qualifications, performance, competency and execution of minimum safety requirements. We hold contractors accountable for satisfying contractual requirements and complying with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards.Williams’ contractor safety management plan helps us pre-screen contractors, confirm compliance with safety guidelines and monitor contractor safety performance. Our safety-grading process assesses contractors based on key performance areas including total recordable incident rate, fatalities, citations, drug and alcohol program compliance and safety management system compliance. We require contractors to submit a Contractor Risk Management Plan if they fail to meet our minimum requirements. Williams’ leadership needs to approve the plan and the contractor must implement improvements to continue business with us.Our environmental, health and safety specialists work with our contractors daily to maintain a safe and environmentally responsible work environment. Williams conducts third-party safety audits and internal evaluations of our contractors to confirm they meet both regulatory and contractual requirements. We track audit action items to closure and change contractor status to “deficient” if they fail to close all actions by the due date. The status remains unchanged until necessary actions are completed.We initiate each project with a site- and project-specific orientation for all contractors. Williams uses a visitor log system to manage on-site registration and check the status of all contractors entering the site. Prior to mobilization, we review contractor site-specific and environmental, health and safety management plans against regulatory and contractual requirements to integrate contractors throughout the process. For large projects, we conduct four-hour safety leadership workshops for contractors and employees to emphasize the importance of superior safety performance. The workshops provide workforce safety leadership and hazard recognition skills training for the entire project. As part of our commitment to contractor safety, we collect and evaluate contractor safety metrics. We expect contractors to report all incidents and share lessons learned by completing incident investigations. We adjusted in-person incident investigation trainings to virtual trainings in response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and we held two virtual trainings in 2021. In 2021, our contractor lost-time incident rate (LTIR) was 0.03 and the total recordable incident rate (TRIR) was 0.31.Implementing Safety Training ProgramsGRI 403-5At Williams, we require every employee to complete safety training to protect ourselves and our teams. We develop unique annual training plans tailored to each employee’s role based on the varying needs of the office, field support and core field employees. Our safety training programs progress with employees as they advance through their careers. We require managers to complete a training questionnaire to confirm that direct reports receive appropriate safety and compliance training based on specific roles and responsibilities. We have processes to assess training proficiency, including written knowledge checks and performance-based evaluations. At the leadership level, we developed new case management training that provides methods for assisting employees recovering from work-related incidents.Our Safe Work mobile application continues to help employees put operational discipline into practice by electronically documenting the steps needed to complete field work via a series of detailed questions. In 2021, Williams completed more than 248,000 work permits through the Safe Work application. We are incorporating new functions and improvements as we receive end-user feedback. One recent advancement includes integrating lockout plans from our work management system to protect employees from equipment that can cause injuries if not shut down properly for maintenance and repairs. To promote strong safety performance, our Hazard Recognition Focus program teaches personnel about workplace hazards and how to identify them before an incident occurs. Safety recognition and encouragement is critical to fostering a safe work environment. Our Shifting Gears awards program recognizes employees for identifying and mitigating workplace hazards. We plan to expand the program’s effectiveness in 2022 by soliciting grassroots feedback and ideas from across the company. Headshot of Lucas Smith.The Safe Work mobile application has revolutionized how we use safety permitting within our work environment. The Work App provides us with data to optimize our workforce performance and identify where we need to focus our safety training energy. We are continually improving our training methods using hazard recognition as our foundation.LUCAS SMITH, MANAGER OF EMPLOYEE SAFETY AT WILLIAMS Female Williams employee, smiling and wearing a hard hat and eye protection.WILLIAMS WILL BE THERELife Critical SafetyIn 2021, we updated our field employee-based safety program called the Life Critical Field Improvement program to include hazard recognition training. We are also expanding the on-the-job training and feedback portion of this program, allowing leaders to discuss life critical processes with employees while they perform the task. We developed a Life Critical Field Engagement Operating Guideline to integrate this effort across the company. We have developed a mobile application for leaders to leverage during these on-the-job conversations to facilitate the discussion with prepared questions for various life critical processes.Williams’ continuous improvement team is responsible for improving safety performance by evaluating existing processes and incorporating lessons learned. Additionally, our environmental, health and safety assurance team proactively evaluates our safety culture across the company using Life Critical Safety Culture Assessments that address 26 factors across three safety culture drivers: leadership, culture and behavior, and competency. We divide our Operating Areas into 19 regional franchises, each of which independently conducts baseline assessments, followed by reassessments 18 months later. The assessments include employee conversations led by an independent, third-party provider and life critical procedure discipline reviews. Our employee participation across franchises is high, with approximately 80% of employees participating in conversations with the third-party provider. Since the program launch in 2019, we have completed 13 baseline assessments, six in 2021 and two reassessments. We plan to finalize all remaining baseline assessments in 2022 and all reassessments in 2024.A Williams truck driving away from a building on a dirt road behind a metal fence.Maintaining motor vehicle safety at a right-of-way in Virginia.Promoting Motor Vehicle Safety Williams and the energy industry have a responsibility to keep people safe by preventing motor vehicle accidents. In alignment with our robust reporting culture, we continue to report and evaluate all minor incidents, such as a small dent in a bumper. We are determined to achieve our target of zero motor vehicle accidents. We aim to eliminate preventable motor vehicle accidents through a combination of equipment updates and employee awareness through our driver safety training program. All employee fleet vehicles have telematics units to track, measure and improve driver safety. We collect metrics on acceleration, cornering, speeding and braking, and share the data with employee leaders. In 2021, we achieved an 18% reduction in total claims costs, reflecting a decrease in the severity of motor vehicle accidents. We reduced higher-severity motor vehicle accidents through our safety strategy, but we have more work to do to reduce our low-severity incidents, particularly around hitting stationary objects at low speeds. We will continue to improve training and awareness in this area, and leverage new technologies and tools to help improve our safe driving culture. In 2021, we had a preventable motor vehicle accident rate of 1.67, a 12% reduction from 2020. Though we drove fewer miles overall in 2021, transferring our performance into a rate allows us to compare the number of incidents per miles driven. 12%reduction in total preventable motor vehicle accidents in 2021 compared to 2020Workforce Health GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 403-3; 403-4; 403-6Our employees are our most valuable asset and we recognize employee well-being as a critical part of our safety program. We are dedicated to continuously improving health and wellness practices at Williams. We offer comprehensive programs and services — including robust medical plan benefits, disease management programs and wellness coaching — to support the health and wellness of employees during and after work. These benefits are available to all full-time and most part-time employees, regardless of location. As a key component of our employee total rewards program, the Williams Way to Wellness Program promotes well-being and long-term health by rewarding employees and their eligible spouses or domestic partners for wellness-focused activities. We provide annual biometric health screenings at many Williams locations and wellness assessments at no cost to employees, with a focus on assessing overall health and early identification of any possible medical risks. Our medical plan also provides preventive screenings at no cost to plan participants, for those who are not able to attend an on-site screening. While our on-site biometric screening participation more than doubled in 2021 compared to 2020, our participation continues to be lower than pre-pandemic levels. Our commitment to this program continues to provide our employees with opportunities to make long-term behavioral changes and reward their efforts. Our wellness program takes a holistic approach to healthy living, with initiatives ranging from physical activity to managing mental health and financial planning. For example, we offer the Real Appeal weight-loss program at no cost to eligible employees, spouses, domestic partners and dependents enrolled in Williams’ medical plan. We evaluate participation and engagement in existing programs to determine design enhancements and inform communication efforts. In 2021, we focused on enhancing our mental health offerings by increasing the number of contracted mental health providers available to our employees. Williams also expanded our therapy offerings to include remote sessions through phone calls, text messaging and mobile phone applications. We continue to offer provider office-based therapy sessions to meet the varying needs of our employees and their families.Cultivating a healthy work environment aligns with our Core Values, increases productivity and promotes long-term value creation. For information about personnel safety, see Workforce Safety.The COVID-19 PandemicWilliams’ agile response to COVID-19 in 2020 prepared us for the continued challenges we faced in 2021. Through this challenging time, we continued to prioritize the well-being of our employees. Since the start of the pandemic, Williams implemented several measures to align with Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines so that our workforce, operators and security experts could continue to do their jobs safely and productively. We maintained updated training programs and operational processes to minimize service disruptions. Williams’ emergency response/corporate support team continues to respond to any potential employee exposure, symptoms or positive cases of COVID-19 while using CDC guidance. The central team receives support from multiple groups including safety, human resources and building facilities to ensure we addressed both safety of our workforce and business continuity. Additionally, our Security Operations Center and our Emergency Operations Center actively manage our quarantine protocols.We provide field employees with specialized safety measures that include, but are not limited to, social distancing; using technology to eliminate in-person communication; developing isolated crews or “bubble teams” for operations, maintenance and project work; implementing CDC cleaning protocol of field offices and fleet vehicles; and establishing protocols for temperature screening of employees and contractors, where necessary. We developed a framework of policy, process and communication to determine what protocols need to be implemented and how best to communicate them. These protocols include required personal protective equipment and COVID-19 contingency plans from every contractor.Throughout 2021, we continued to actively monitor internal and external situational data and quickly implemented accommodations to address changing risk factors. We updated our flexible work arrangements and continued to offer routine remote options, implemented a rotating schedule at certain points to reduce office occupancy and offered accommodations for childcare and business continuity plans for critical infrastructure employees. Despite these efforts, the pandemic increased our recordable illnesses in 2021. We sustained 900 reported cases of COVID-19, of which only 24 cases resulted from work-related exposures.To limit the spread of the virus throughout our workforce, we built on the administrative, engineering and substitution controls implemented in 2020. As Williams experienced more workplace COVID-19 cases in 2021, our “crew bubbles” were one of our most successful controls. Our Emergency Operations Center uses contact tracing protocols to determine if a case is work-related. For work-related COVID-19 cases, we follow OSHA’s guidance to include COVID-19 sicknesses with recordable illnesses.A Williams employee walking towards the Transco pipeline facility. The Transco pipeline in North Carolina.Pipeline SafetySASB EM-MD-520a.1; EM-MD-540a.1; GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3We endeavor to maintain safe and reliable operations that serve our customers and generate value for our shareholders. Williams uses state-of-the-art sensors, monitoring and technology for Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) assessments across our compressor stations and pipelines. Our pipelines span more than 30,000 miles across the country, creating the need for a sustained baseline of high integrity, reliability and safety throughout our operations.Governance & OversightSASB EM-MD-520a.1; EM-MD-540a.1We develop and maintain our Integrity Management Plans (IMPs) to ensure the safety and stability of our pipelines. These plans provide a structured approach for the recurring evaluation of risks and threats by implementing controls to prevent or mitigate the effects of potential incidents. A key element of maintaining pipeline integrity, reliability and safety is the deployment of Pipeline Integrity Assessments and repairs of identified defects. Annually, we set a performance measure to complete 100% of required integrity assessments. In 2021, Williams completed integrity assessments on 86 pipeline segments, with eight of those segments warranting repair following field-based evaluation. In total, we performed 3,017 miles of integrity assessments in 2021.Our executives maintain pipeline integrity oversight by engaging in annual planning and budgeting for all pipeline integrity activities. They evaluate risk assessment results and propose preventive and mitigative measures to reduce those risks. The asset integrity team presents an annual performance summary of our IMPs to senior management, as required in our Gas IMP and Liquid IMP. Williams conducts these annual performance evaluations to assess all elements of our integrity programs, pinpoint any improvement opportunities and develop action items to track completion of recommended improvements. In 2021, Williams identified additional metrics to add to our annual program evaluation, including facility integrity management program activities, results and metrics.Williams conducts annual audits of our internal pipeline integrity initiatives, organized by company employees, along with external, third-party audits, at least every three years. In 2021, we completed a third-party review of our in-line inspection (ILI) validation process and responded to recommended changes with updates to the associated procedures and forms. Updates included integrating all ILI validation requirements following the most recent API 1163 ILI standard. Williams also completed a third-party review of its control room management, operator qualification and drug and alcohol programs in 2021.Williams continually monitors regulatory changes and industry events to align updates to our IMPs. In 2021, PHMSA imposed a requirement for updated inspection and maintenance plans to address eliminating hazardous leaks and minimizing releases from pipeline facilities. In response, Williams reviewed our requirements and found them to be in full compliance. Additionally, we cataloged our procedures, governance documents and programs to meet the PHMSA requirement. We also updated our assessment process to address industry events related to pipeline hard spots and seam weld corrosion. We maintained our participation in developing and revising industry standards and recommended practices, as well as integrating updates and lessons learned, as appropriate.We work to remain in compliance with all applicable laws related to our pipelines. Williams experienced $41,000 in monetary losses resulting from legal proceedings associated with federal pipeline and storage regulations in 2021. Additionally, Williams experienced 11 reportable pipeline incidents in 2021, including spills and releases to the environment, seven of which were significant PHMSA reportable pipeline incidents. For more information on spills and releases, see Minimizing Our Footprint. Two Williams employees standing at a railing, overlooking a liquid natural gas storage tank.WILLIAMS WILL BE THEREAligning With Our PeersWilliams continues to invest resources into cross-industry collaboration to improve safety performance. For example, in 2021, Williams became a top-tier member of Pipeline Research Council International’s (PRCI) newly created Emerging Fuels Institute (EFI) in 2021. EFI works to resolve the technical gaps that exist as the industry transitions to low-carbon energy solutions, while using existing pipeline asset infrastructure. Additionally, Williams is actively involved in PRCI’s Crack Management Strategic Research Program, which drives work related to crack susceptibility, inspection, assessment and remediation. We use this work to continuously improve Williams’ Crack Management Program and improve our safety performance.Additionally, Williams participates in opportunities for industry pipeline safety collaboration, including Interstate Natural Gas Association of America, PRCI and applicable joint industry projects. Williams’ asset integrity team is regularly involved in the API working groups and standards development/revision teams. In 2021, team members supported the Pipeline Integrity Work Group, the API 1163 ILI revision team, the API 1176 Crack Management revision team, API 1104 Welding team, the Facility Integrity Plan development team and other ad hoc projects as they arose.Finally, in alignment with the industry and API Recommended Practice 1173, Williams invested heavily in the development of a comprehensive pipeline safety management system (PSMS). This elective program applies the Plan-Do-Check-Act philosophy of continuous improvement and provides a framework that enhances pipeline safety performance through standardization of key program elements. Williams implemented the final PSMS governance structure in 2021. We established a core team of element owners to mirror the structure of WIMS, our standard operating requirements and procedure system. This structure allowed Williams to translate the criteria of API 1173 into the language that we speak, and created opportunities for collaboration between different teams and functional areas. We developed a scoring system in 2021 that will allow the core team to evaluate our progress toward a mature PSMS in 2022 and beyond.Programs & InitiativesWilliams monitors pipelines for flow, pressure, temperature and other factors through our dedicated control centers, which include automated system response to potential leak conditions. Technologies such as infrared, acoustic and laser also facilitate leak detection. Williams’ Pipeline Integrity Program allows us to monitor, inspect and update our pipeline systems. In 2021, we updated the Pipeline Integrity Program to add new sub-programs related to maximum allowable operating pressure (MAOP) reconfirmation and material records verification. Additionally, we upgraded the program’s Pipeline Risk Model to include probability-based corrosion modeling and excavation damage trending data, as well as pipeline control data sources for leading indicators of pipeline safety events. See a detailed visualization of Williams’ Pipeline Integrity Program below.In 2021, Williams also launched the DOT2Max project to optimize the work management of compliance-driven Department of Transportation (DOT) tasks in our Maximo system. This project escalates pending compliance work and allows management visibility into task completion status to proactively maintain and promote compliance. One of the focus areas of the project included company-wide corrosion control activities. We will continue optimizing DOT-required compliance tasks in Maximo throughout 2022.We use LiDAR technology to monitor and respond to changing conditions in areas subject to landslides that could adversely affect pipelines. For example, in 2020, we used aerial regional LiDAR, as part of our landslide management program, to detect a deep-seated landslide located northeast of Hopedale, Ohio. As a result, in 2021, we performed pipeline strain relief excavations and installed strain gauges on the exposed pipelines to monitor future pipeline movement. We will use further subsurface monitoring to detect future ground movement.We also deploy unmanned aerial systems (UAS) to monitor pipelines for right-of-way activities that need investigation or response. The primary uses for UAS include surveying and 3D modeling, facility and equipment inspections, construction monitoring and environmental compliance. Environmental compliance includes right-of-way inspections, vegetation growth and thermal imaging for leaks, to name a few. Williams now has 14 registered Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Part 107 Remote Pilots within the company and owns/operates more than 10 different UAS with sensors capable of photography, video, photogrammetry and thermal imaging.Williams’ Pipeline Integrity ProgramGraphic showing the different components of Williams' Pipeline Integrity Program. From left to right: Above ground elements include a graphic of three side-by-side monitors on a desk to represent Williams' 24/7 system monitoring; a graphic of a pipeline structure with a dial in the middle to represent Williams' use of cleaning pigs to prevent corrosion; a graphic of a helicopter to represent Williams' aerial inspection and patrol; a graphic of a person in a hard hat next to some marking flags in the ground to represent valve inspections, leak surveys and pipeline marking; and a graphic of a pipeline structure with knobs in the middle to represent pressure and temperature sensors. From left to right: Underground elements include wield x-rays; a graphic showing tools to represent smart pigs in-line inspections, and protective coating and pipeline replacement.Six Williams employees walking up stairs on the side of a liquid natural gas storage tank.Williams’ employees at our Pine Needle facility in North Carolina.Two Williams employees standing in a forest at the edge of a creek. One employee is pointing up toward trees across the creek.Maintenance Coordinator Katie Durcik and Operations Technician Nate Krebs near station 610 in Pennsylvania.In 2021, we conducted pilot projects to improve Williams’ aerial leak detection means and methods, provide more accurate identification of staged leaks, improve the efficiency of detection activities, elevate the effectiveness of leak mitigation techniques, and share and maintain results. Throughout our Northwest Pipeline and Eastern Interstate systems, we complete patrols more frequently as an added damage prevention measure. In 2021, we conducted pilot projects to improve Williams’ aerial leak detection means and methods, provide more accurate identification of staged leaks, improve the efficiency of detection activities, elevate the effectiveness of leak mitigation techniques and share and maintain results. Williams conducted these projects to determine the best available technology and then completed a vendor analysis and selected strategic partners. We executed several projects in portions of our Northwest Pipeline and Eastern Interstates franchises to evaluate the implementation of vendor-authored direct reporting into Williams’ GIS systems. Additionally, these pilot projects provided feedback on automated electronic data migration solutions for field employees to increase data availability for sharing locally, enterprisewide and externally. In 2022, we plan to broadly implement these solutions and continue evaluating drone technology for aerial leak surveys, including more continuous data gathering and migration into GIS for field follow-up.Williams runs cleaning pigs and uses ILI tools, when needed, for flow assurance and threat management, including threats such as internal and external corrosion. We coat all new pipelines with modern coating systems that act as the primary barrier to corrosion. In addition, we apply cathodic protection as a second line of defense to prevent corrosion.In 2021, Williams extended the application of more sustainable pipe repair methods based on new engineering analysis and testing. These methods include compressive steel sleeves and carbon fiber composite sleeves, used during integrity management in-field examinations. Both of these repair types reduce the need to blow down pipelines for pipe replacement repairs, greatly reducing methane emissions when repairs are necessary. In response to new regulations in U.S. 49 Code of Federal Regulations Part 192, which require operators to reconfirm their MAOP when material and pressure test records are not available, Williams piloted our first Engineering Critical Assessment (ECA) project. The ECA project required the use of an ILI tool to establish populations of pipe with similar characteristics. After establishing populations of pipe, we compared and contrasted these populations to Williams’ available material records. These records received previous evaluation to meet regulatory requirements known as “traceable, verifiable and complete” (TVC). Reconfirmation of MAOP is required in certain areas where records are not TVC. Use of an ECA method is beneficial in that it reduces the amount of blowdowns required through hydrotesting and/or pipe replacement, which are other available methods. Williams is on track to complete work on all pipe segments subject to MAOP reconfirmation by the regulatory-required due dates. Williams has been involved in the planning of many research projects involving hydrogen blending in our pipeline infrastructure. Williams is part of PRCI Emerging Fuels Initiative (EFI), a collaborative industry research project supporting future special projects such as the DNV joint industry project on measuring the effect of hydrogen and natural gas blending on the fracture toughness of vintage pipelines. Williams also is participating in a government/industry initiative called Hyblend-Pipeline Blending Cooperative Research and Development Agreement. This is a multi-year effort to study hydrogen effects on pipeline materials and existing infrastructure. Mechanical Integrity Williams is continually improving our approach to integrity management in our operational gathering and processing facilities across the U.S. We are committed to maintaining mechanical integrity in these facilities through meeting integrity requirements and guidelines included in WIMS. We outline the company’s expectations for managing mechanical integrity quality assurance, data management and midstream inspections.Williams conducts assessments and visual inspections of facilities on a condition-based schedule using a corrosion-based analytical process, including special emphasis assessments at higher-risk areas. When we install new equipment, we perform inspections prior to startup or asset commissioning to establish a mechanical integrity assessment baseline. We compile all historical design, inspection and testing information into a condition-monitoring database for accurate inspection and data analysis. Through this process, Williams identifies assets that require comprehensive engineering assessments for continued safe operations.We continue to look for ways to strengthen our strategy around operational risk management. In 2021, we drafted an API-recommended approach to Corrosion Control Documentation (CCD). The CCD program will complement our use of Integrity Operating Windows to establish inspection plans for assets within the processing facility. We are currently in the process of implementing the Risk Based Inspection (RBI) module in the Plant Condition Monitoring System to complement the CCD program. Additionally, the CCD will allow for operating conditions focused on a company’s risk threshold, comprising damage probabilities and potential consequences. The RBI Program Charter is complete and under review, with anticipated implementation to begin in 2023.Public SafetySafeguarding our employees and the public is fundamental to everything we do. Our extensive emergency preparedness experience contributes to Williams’ reputation as a reliable operator. We have robust processes in place to prepare for and appropriately respond to a wide range of emergencies. While operating in often densely populated areas, our goal is to protect Williams’ workforce and the communities surrounding our operations. One of the greatest challenges to maintaining safe pipeline operations is accidental damage caused by third-party excavation, construction, farming activities and homeowner maintenance. Williams has robust procedures to engage with local stakeholders to help prevent potential safety incidents and reduce third-party damage to pipelines. Natural gas pipeline infrastructure.Pine Needle station in North Carolina.Index finger pointing at a map.Establishing site-specific emergency plans.Emergency Preparedness SASB EM-MD-540a.4e WIMS includes company-wide requirements for implementing midstream and pipeline emergency response procedures. We annually review and update WIMS documents to continuously improve our practices and respond to changes in regulatory requirements. Our emergency response program developed two new emergency response templates in 2021 — one template for our gathering and processing facilities that fall under OSHA and another template for the DOT regulations. In addition, the emergency response department engaged members from operations to consolidate operating requirements into a streamlined document to improve efficiency.Operating managers are responsible for establishing site-specific emergency plans at our facilities. We evaluate emergency plans annually to confirm the required notification lists, evacuation processes and operating requirements are in place. WIMS operationalizes our required safety processes and procedures throughout a project lifecycle, from land acquisition to decommissioning.In implementing API Recommended Practice 1173, Williams thoroughly reviews the emergency response process and identifies gaps. We address significant gaps by developing new processes and updating emergency response operating requirements. In 2021, we updated the emergency response operating requirement to document exercises and drills consistently across the organization. For more information about API 1173, see Pipeline Safety.Williams provides employees with annual safety drills and training exercises to prepare for a diverse set of emergencies, including accidental releases and security-related incidents. Williams requires local emergency responders to be included in relevant training exercises and drills at least every three years. We conduct drills and tabletop exercises with first responders to confirm that all parties understand needed responses in the unlikely event of an incident on our pipeline systems. Our online portal provides emergency responders with instructor-led training courses and web-based training programs. We also conduct outreach efforts with emergency responders, including in-person meetings, facility tours and informational mailers. In 2021, Williams sent more than 21,450 public awareness mailers to emergency response agencies.In response to numerous requests from departments within the company, the emergency response team developed department-specific training sessions. The Northeast gathering and processing department was the first to execute a tabletop exercise with the Executive Support Team Drill in 2021. While in Comer, Georgia, the incident support team assisted Station 130 with a full-scale drill involving eight public service agencies ranging from local volunteer emergency responders to the public school district. The drill successfully provided local public service agencies with information on Williams’ emergency response process. The emergency response team expanded trainings to include Incident Command System (ICS) trainings for all incident support managers within the incident support team and the executive support team processes, and developed ICS tabletop trainings for operations. Throughout 2021, operations conducted six full-scale drills, two functional tabletop drills and 17 tabletop drills.Williams expanded its emergency response planning to include pandemics and other serious widespread illnesses in 2020. The pandemic response business continuity plan includes activation triggers based on current conditions and the severity of the pandemic threat. Williams will use this plan for current and future pandemics to define the operational posture of individual facilities, districts and the organization. Once the executive officer team activates the enterprise pandemic response, individual departments can use the corporate or operational readiness planning checklist to assist in preparation efforts.If an emergency incident does occur, we fully investigate the cause to prevent future occurrences. Our remediation management process establishes a standard method for managing post-emergency responses at company sites. We maintain updated notification lists and coordinate with local emergency response organizations to effectively communicate information to local communities. At the heart of Williams, we care deeply about the well-being of the communities where we work and live. In 2021, Williams donated $532,000 to support more than 400 first responder organizations throughout our operating areas. Additionally, we make charitable investments to employees and communities affected by natural disasters and stay connected with the first responder community through in-person meetings, an annual mailing program and online training. For more information, see Community Relations.Public Awareness Williams’ public awareness programs prioritize public safety and environmental protection. We engage with property owners, businesses, excavators, emergency responders, public officials and other interested parties to share information about our public awareness programs. We integrate best practices from Common Ground Alliance, a member-driven association committed to preventing damage to underground infrastructure. Williams’ public awareness and damage prevention steering committee oversees the communication and implementation of public awareness and damage prevention initiatives. We design public awareness programs to enhance safety by increasing knowledge of pipeline locations and safety prevention measures. Employees record supplemental public awareness outreach activities with landowners, farmers, professional excavators and other stakeholders using Williams’ electronic forms and mobile application. The greatest threat to our pipeline safety is third parties digging near pipelines without proper notification and line marking. Williams sends an annual public awareness mailer to surrounding landowners and community members detailing the importance of calling 811 at least 48–72 hours before the start of any digging project, so underground utilities can mark their lines. We also send a mailer to farming and ranching communities within 10 miles of our pipelines. In 2021, we expanded our mailer distribution to communities surrounding Williams’ three liquefied natural gas storage facilities to provide information on potential exposures. To improve public communications, we redesigned our baseline mailers to enhance readability and promote content retention. We always encourage individuals to contact our 24-hour control center to report abnormal conditions or emergencies at Williams’ pipelines and facilities. We centralized our numerous control centers to one phone number to make our company more easily accessible to the public. In 2021, we published our new emergency phone number on the Williams website and in company brochures, mailers and handouts. Our online damage prevention toolkit provides field personnel with tools, resources and technologies to identify and prevent line strikes. We regularly update the toolkit with new best practices, lessons learned and improved tools and technologies. Williams uses a dashboard that communicates trends in near-miss and line-strike data across the company and helps drive reporting consistency. In 2021, Williams enhanced the dashboard features to include interactive maps, such as heat maps, to visually reference line marks and near-misses.Stemming from API Recommended Practice 1162, Williams’ Public Awareness Program is evaluated every four years for program effectiveness. In 2021, Williams updated our effectiveness measurement approach to have better visibility of peer performance and benchmark Williams against our peers. We will use our benchmark findings to identify areas for improvement throughout our Public Awareness Program.Williams experienced zero DOT reportable releases caused by third parties in 2021. We maintain compliance with all relevant DOT requirements, including the annual manual review and periodic procedure review. The annual manual review is a yearly review to address changes in regulations and technical or industry standards and evaluate whether our operating requirements are adequate and effective. We conduct the periodic procedure review every five years to observe employees’ work on DOT-regulated pipelines and facilities to determine the adequacy and effectiveness of procedures used in everyday operations and maintenance.A male and a female Williams employee looking at a trail map. The male employee is pointing to a specific location on the map.Permitting Manager Lynda Schubring and Countryside Conservancy Executive Director Bill Kern at the Dalton Trail in Pennsylvania.Male Williams employee operating pipeline equipment at the Transco station.Operations Technician Josh Moore at the Transco station in North Carolina.Process SafetyWilliams safeguards our people, our assets and the environment by identifying and reducing potential safety risks. We integrate safety into all aspects of our operations, from planning our business strategy to managing our facilities and assets, so that we can deliver safe and reliable energy. WIMS includes a comprehensive set of policies and standards to manage process safety, ranging from pre-startup safety review policies to process hazard analysis requirements. We proactively manage process safety risks while complying with applicable regulations and industry standards. Our uniform approach to process safety reviews uses a standardized management of change (MOC) and pre-startup review software, which thoroughly evaluates and tracks modifications to our assets. Additionally, we use a third party to conduct regulatory-required Process Safety Management (PSM) and Risk Management Plan (RMP) audits across our PSM/RMP-regulated facilities. Although the use of a third party is not required by regulation, it gives us an outside perspective on our PSM program performance so that we can keep our employees and communities safe. In 2021, our process safety team began engaging in the assurance process. The team conducted frequent meetings with the safety assurance group to review common gaps and frequently attended audit closing meetings. Williams implements processes and uses equipment to prevent the uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons and hazardous substances. In March 2021, changes to EPA’s RMP rule require Williams to conduct a public meeting within 90 days of any future release of a regulated chemical. Williams implemented a community meeting outreach plan to comply with these requirements. Additionally, we continued to follow API Recommended Practice 754 to track process safety occurrences. In 2021, we reduced our Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety incidents by 12%, experiencing 30 events compared to 34 in 2020. For information about Williams’ Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) performance, along with strategies and procedures for reducing LOPC year-over-year, see Spill Performance.When incidents do occur, we follow the appropriate procedures to mitigate future occurrences. In 2021, we experienced an ethane release at our Targa Gillis Meter Station, when a pump used to divert liquid failed during operation. We also experienced a natural gas and hydrogen sulfide release at the Strait Compressor facility due to freezing temperatures causing a valve failure. Following both incidents, we conducted a full investigation according to our policies and procedures and implemented recommendations to prevent reoccurrences. Williams views a strong safety performance as synonymous with a well-managed company. In 2021, our process safety group refreshed quarterly meetings to discuss process safety-related topics. Topics included new or revised process safety procedures for WIMS, MOC execution improvement and a variety of process safety topics facilitated by company subject matter experts with field PSM coordinators and other operations personnel across the organization. These meetings enhanced collaboration and consistency with stakeholders in the field. We also developed and implemented a new Process Safety Management Overview training for our employees. The training reviews the 14 elements of process safety, such as MOC, pre-startup safety review, operating procedures and mechanical integrity. We developed and improved our Quick Reference Cards to help field staff more easily and accurately report on accidental ignitions, safety system activations and high-potential process safety near-misses.Williams continues to emphasize hazard and near-miss identification and reporting to investigate potential incidents and mitigate actual incidents before they occur. Our live performance data dashboard for process safety incidents lets us track equipment type and root causes of process safety incidents. The dashboard allows increased visibility into process safety metrics and performance from an enterprise level down to the individual asset. Our senior management frequently reviews the dashboards to drive improvement. 82%reduction in process safety incidents achieved since 2017CybersecurityProtecting our operations against cybersecurity threats is critical for the success of our business. As an energy infrastructure company, Williams is acutely aware of the physical harm, financial losses and reputational damages that cyberattacks present to our business and national security. We strive to maintain stakeholder and community trust in the integrity of our systems by implementing proactive measures, company-wide policies and training courses for employees to prevent unauthorized access to our physical locations and computerized systems.Governance Practices Williams’ commitment to mitigating cybersecurity risks extends to all levels of the organization, from facility personnel to our board of directors. Our executive-level steering committee provides additional oversight on Williams’ cybersecurity initiatives, such as improving cybersecurity-reporting metrics. We developed a quarterly cybersecurity board report to communicate our performance and any identified risks directly to the board.Additionally, our cyber-risk team and cyber-operations teams oversee cybersecurity issues. The cyber-risk team focuses on cyber governance, risk assessment and compliance review and facilitation. The cyber-operations team focuses on access fulfillment, technical security control management, security event monitoring, security standards development and incident response. In 2021, these teams created a cybersecurity three-year roadmap and improved our cybersecurity internal matrix reporting for security operations. Our cybersecurity hardening committee implemented measures in 2021 to provide heightened security across our systems. Measures implemented include reducing administrative access to servers and desktops, enhancing endpoint protection functionality, updating the Patch Management standards, deploying new firewalls and improving backup and recovery platforms, among others.In 2021, our cybersecurity team focused on complying with the new Transportation Security Administration (TSA) security directives by aligning with recommended processes and control points to protect from network vulnerabilities and data breaches. For example, Williams conducted a risk assessment and continues to secure the environment through improved practices and processes. In addition to working through the remaining directives, we will focus our future efforts on building out our Data Classification, Cybersecurity and Acceptable Use Policy, improving upon the associated standards and programs with these policies.Williams employee sitting at a desk, looking at several computer monitors displaying data.Williams employee monitoring cybersecurity issues at Williams Headquarters in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Male Williams employee sitting in a chair with his hands clasped together, smiling at a female Williams employee.Network Analyst Jonah Sloup in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Programs & Initiatives As Williams’ workforce leverages hybrid work, we continue to refine and reinforce our cybersecurity efforts, particularly due to additional risks caused by remote work. In 2021, we modernized our document control system and executed a cyber-readiness drill and automation for gathering and processing. Additional initiatives included an enhanced multi-factor authentication project, a field and data center network segmentation project and an access management modernization effort.In 2021, we continued to execute on the vision of our executive-level steering committee’s industrial control systems cybersecurity program. This program aims to protect and secure our technology-based operational assets and ensure they are available to meet business demands. We do this by leveraging the appropriate skill sets across departments, applying best practices and maintaining accountability to leadership, including the board of directors. We conduct regular internal audits and IT risk strategy sessions to assess cybersecurity threats and respond accordingly. To complement this effort, Williams contracts with a third party to evaluate risks within our corporate and operations networks. We remain focused on continuously improving our approach to and execution of cybersecurity management. In 2021, we completed a cyber-readiness drill, which was well received and provided multiple lessons learned. The primary goal of the drill was to exercise the ability to continue transporting product while under a cybersecurity attack. The overall outcome of the drill was successful with open lines of communications, participation and opportunities for improvement. We will incorporate the lessons learned during the exercise into our 2022 Operational Readiness Drill.TrainingOur cybersecurity awareness and training standard helps all employees, contractors and vendors develop awareness of cybersecurity risks. Williams also deploys simulated phishing emails to practice identifying and responding to email attacks. We require employees and contractors who fail a phishing email test to complete additional training. Williams supplements training programs with awareness initiatives that call attention to cybersecurity through posters, presentations, newsletters and events. For the past five years, Williams has hosted a Company-Wide Cyber Awareness event during National Cybersecurity Awareness Month to inform employees about the different types of cybersecurity risks. In line with our efforts to prevent victims of phishing attacks, we focused our 2021 Cyber Awareness event on the theme of #BeCyberSmart — educating employees on social media’s contribution to phishing.98.73%of employees completed cybersecurity training in 2021 to reduce risk exposurePortrait of a female Williams employee wearing personal protective equipment.Rotational Engineer Caitlin Hennessey at a pipeline construction site in Pennsylvania.