Company OverviewAs the world demands reliable, low-cost, low-carbon energy, Williams will be there with the best transport, storage and delivery solutions. We make clean energy happen by being the best-in-class operator of the critical infrastructure that supports a clean energy future.Portrait of Williams' President and Chief Executive Officer Alan S. Armstrong, smiling and sitting at a table with his hands clasped together.President and Chief Executive Officer Alan S. Armstrong.CEO LetterGRI 102-14Williams Will Be There At Williams we are embracing our vision to provide the best transport, storage and delivery solutions for reliable, low-cost, low-carbon energy. As one of the nation’s leading energy infrastructure companies, we are committed to leveraging our large-scale natural gas network for the benefit of tomorrow and generations to come. Today we deliver natural gas used by millions of homes and businesses in the U.S., and we understand the direct link between sustainable business operations, corporate stewardship and long-term business success. As a result of our ESG imperatives, Williams ranked No. 1 in its peer group in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 2021 and was the only U.S. energy company to be included in both their world and North American indices.Providing Clean, Affordable & Reliable EnergyWilliams has taken important steps to meet growing energy demand and achieve industry-leading emissions reductions. We were the first North American midstream company to set actionable climate targets while embarking on a multi-year modernization and emissions reduction program to ready our transmission network for the future.We have reduced our company-wide Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 47% since 2005 on our way to meeting our 2030 goal of a 56% reduction below 2005 levels. Our 2022 all-employee annual incentive program includes a total methane emissions reduction target of 5% from our three-year average, which personally connects every employee to our long-term commitment to safe, reliable and environmentally friendly operations.We have prioritized our natural gas-focused strategy because we see firsthand the critical role it plays in providing safe and dependable low-carbon energy while supporting the growth of renewables. At the same time, we recognize that more needs to be done to mitigate the risks of climate change and stimulate technology growth needed to build a viable clean energy economy.Building the Next Generation Energy MarketplaceWith aspirations of achieving net zero by 2050, we launched New Energy Ventures to drive the commercialization and implementation of innovative technologies and markets in the clean energy business. By combining our infrastructure, our expertise and our strategic relationships, we have developed such pragmatic solutions as solar installations to power our facilities, renewable natural gas interconnects from dairy farms and landfills, and digital platforms that provide market transparency for responsibly sourced natural gas. One key initiative will overlay satellite monitors and blockchain technology on our core infrastructure to provide end-to-end measured, verifiable and transparent emissions data for real-time decision-making capabilities for Williams and our customers.We are also working to incorporate hydrogen and carbon capture and storage into our existing network to serve some of the most populated areas of the U.S. As a result of our early entry into this space, our industry leadership is being called upon by researchers and academics as well as U.S. legislators intent on building clean energy solutions.Protecting People & Strengthening InfrastructureOur history of innovation, determination and drive for excellence would not be possible without the dedication of our employees. Anchored by our Core Values, we operate in a safety-driven manner that protects fellow employees, contractors and the public, while also safeguarding our assets and the environment.This safety culture and performance has proven long-term success with a 26% reduction in employee recordable injuries since 2017. Employees are our most valuable resource, and we recognize employee well-being as a critical part of our safety program. Our agile response to COVID-19 in 2020 prepared us for the continued challenges we faced in 2021. As we look ahead, we know building an empowered workforce is key to achieving our vision. To be the best-in-class operator of critical infrastructure supporting a clean energy economy, we must refuse to stand still, changing as necessary to meet new challenges, and attracting, retaining and developing the very best talent in the industry.The leadership team at Williams believes in the value of a diverse and inclusive workforce. To further encourage this, I have signed a pledge of support for the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Coalition to cultivate a trusting environment in which our employees feel comfortable and empowered to have conversations around diversity, equity and inclusion. We continued to increase our disclosures by releasing our EEO-1 Survey Data reports externally for the first time as part of our enterprise-wide 2022 Diversity and Inclusion Report. Being There for Our CommunitiesFor more than 100 years, Williams and our employees have positively influenced the local communities we call home through our charitable giving, outreach and volunteer efforts. In 2021, we contributed over $12 million to more than 2,100 organizations across 48 states through our community giving channels, including cash contributions, in-kind donations and matching programs, and our employees recorded more than 23,000 volunteer hours. In closing, Williams is making good on its promise to safely and reliably provide the natural gas used each day for electricity generation, manufacturing, residential use and more. Demand for clean energy is on the rise and natural gas is playing a critical role in moving the world to a low-carbon future. Consistent with our vision, Williams will be there to responsibly deliver natural gas as we invest in next generation energy solutions to sustainably meet the dual challenge of meeting growing energy needs and protecting the environment. Sincerely,Alan Armstrong's signature.ALAN S. ARMSTRONG, WILLIAMS PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERAerial photograph of a suburban neighborhood street intersection with dense leafy tree cover and rolling hills on the horizon.Williams delivers natural gas used by millions of homes and businesses in the United States.Male Williams employee smiling behind a large yellow valve wheel at the Transco compressor station.Operations Technician Zachary Compton at the Transco compressor station in Virginia.About WilliamsGRI 102-2; 102-4; 102-5; 102-6; 102-7; 102-8; 102-16The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams) commits to being the best-in-class operator of critical infrastructure that supports a clean energy future. As the world demands reliable and affordable low-carbon energy, Williams will be there with the best transport, storage and delivery solutions. Williams is a publicly traded Fortune 500 company with approximately 4,800 employees across the United States (U.S.). Headquartered in Tulsa, Oklahoma, our operations span 26 states, including the Gulf of Mexico, Rockies, Pacific Northwest and Eastern Seaboard regions.In the continental U.S., millions of homes and commercial businesses utilize natural gas, and Williams is proud to participate in the safe and reliable delivery of that gas. Williams understands the direct link between sustainable business operations, corporate stewardship in communities and long-term business success. We own and operate more than 30,000 miles of pipeline infrastructure across our system and handle approximately 30% of the natural gas supply in the U.S. Our critical energy infrastructure includes Transco, the largest and fastest-growing major interstate pipeline in the U.S. We transport products every day for clean power generation, heating and industrial use. We own an interest in and operate 29 natural gas processing facilities, seven natural gas liquid (NGL) fractionation facilities and approximately 23 million barrels of NGL storage capacity. Our transmission, gas gathering and liquids pipelines serve customers including utilities, power generators, industrial consumers and liquefied natural gas (LNG) export facilities. We position ourselves to support the clean energy future through our current natural gas business and our investments in new sources of energy, which will facilitate growth and commercial certainty for the next 100 years and beyond. See our 2021 Annual Report for our financial data. As an energy infrastructure company, Williams plays a critical role as the world moves to a low-carbon future. Williams’ unique position allows us to support the continued replacement of higher-emitting fuels such as coal and heating oil domestically and abroad. According to U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) projections, the displacement of emission-intensive coal with natural gas and renewable energy will allow the U.S. to continue reducing carbon dioxide emissions into 2035. Natural gas remains an indispensable partner in supporting society’s ambitions to add more renewable energy to the power grid. Natural gas ensures reliable power generation when intermittent wind and solar resources are unavailable. Concurrently, the ability of the U.S. to export LNG will also provide other countries with the environmental benefits of replacing more carbon-intensive energy sources. Williams’ Transco pipeline is positioned to serve this growing LNG export market.By responsibly transporting and delivering natural gas and investing in emerging clean energy sources, such as hydrogen, we can position our company to contribute to a cleaner environment both now and into the future. We also recognize the need to scale emissions reduction technology across the industry. We are collaborating with international partners to accelerate the deployment of carbon capture and storage (CCS) by shaping policies that prioritize CCS efforts through our engagement with the Global CCS Institute.Williams has a history of innovation, determination and a drive for excellence serving as the foundation of our success, which would not be possible without our dedicated employees. Our employees continue working safely to power America’s communities during the ongoing pandemic. These dedicated individuals manage our control rooms and operate, maintain and support our field assets 24 hours a day.Williams’ OperationsMap of the contiguous United States illustrating Williams' 30,000 miles of pipeline infrastructure, facilities, and assets spanning 26 states. States with operational activity are highlighted in blue, and the map contains dots and lines marking the locations and routes of assets, which are denoted in the legend to the right of the map. The Transco pipeline travels from the southern Gulf Coast of Texas to New York City, New Jersey and central Pennsylvania. The Northwest pipeline system travels from the Rocky Mountain region to the Pacific Northwest region. The Overland Pass pipeline system travels from central Kansas to southern Wyoming. The Bluestem pipeline system travels from central Oklahoma to central Kansas. The Gulfstream pipeline system travels from the Gulf Coast of Alabama to central Florida.2021 Williams by the NumbersTotal Number of Full-Time Employees by Gender Pie chart showing the following data.1,024	Female3,757	MaleTotal Number of Permanent Employees by Employment Type Pie chart showing the following data.22	Part-Time4,792	Full-TimeTotal Number of Permanent Employees by Region[1][1].Region data presented is based on primary work location. Remote employees are counted in the region data based on the Williams locations supported by the employees. Williams does not have temporary employees. This table excludes third-party workers. The difference of counts in full-time employees and full-time employees broken down by gender is due to employees that have elected to not specify or disclose gender. Pie chart showing the following data.1,562	Atlantic-Gulf 1,224	Northeast912	West1,116	Tulsa HeadquartersOverhead aerial photograph of a Williams pipeline station.WILLIAMS WILL BE THEREAchieving Strong Environmental, Social & Governance Performance At Williams, we understand the direct link between sustainable operations, corporate stewardship and long-term business success. Williams received recognition across several key sustainability rankings in 2021 — including CDP, S&P Corporate Sustainability Index, Sustainalytics and MSCI — for our commitment to transparency and governance around ESG. Williams ranked first in our peer group in the S&P Corporate Sustainability Index and was the only U.S. energy company to be named to the worldwide Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Williams received a “B” score from CDP for our commitment to transparency around climate change. This ranking exceeds the oil and gas storage and transportation activity group sector average of “B-” as well as the North American regional average of “C.” In addition, S&P Global Platts named Williams the winner of its “2021 Award of Excellence — Midstream” for our leadership in the midstream industry, particularly as it relates to progressing toward climate goals and incorporating solar, renewable natural gas and hydrogen into our existing energy infrastructure network.Headshot of Alan Armstrong.Our ESG ratings validate our commitment to holding ourselves accountable and being transparent with customers, employees and shareholders, but we still have much to accomplish on this journey. I want to thank our employees for their efforts this past year to make all this possible as we continue to execute our clean energy strategy and deliver long-term value to our stakeholders.ALAN ARMSTRONG, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF WILLIAMSUnited Nations Sustainable Development GoalsThe United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a call to action for government and non-state entities to address current and future global challenges to promote a better, more sustainable world. The 17 SDGs provide a blueprint to address challenges, including poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, peace and justice. Contributing to the SDGs offers Williams the opportunity to align our sustainability efforts to a globally-recognized framework and play a meaningful role in the shared advancement of these goals. We conducted a benchmark assessment against the 17 SDGs, down to the target level, to assess our highest priority goals. The assessment evaluated the SDGs based on key criteria including connection to Williams’ material issues, alignment with the company’s business strategy and our ability to make progress toward the relevant targets. On the following pages, we describe our four corresponding contributions to high-relevance indicators for selected priority SDGs.Logo for the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.Creek winding through wetlands in New Jersey during sunset, with an urban landscape on the horizon.Williams-protected wetlands near station 240 in New Jersey.Aerial photograph of Williams Station 610, surrounded by fields and trees.Station 610 in Pennsylvania.Icon for United Nations Sustainable Development Goal number 7.AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGYSDG Target 7.1: By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services. Contribution to Relevant IndicatorsWilliams’ infrastructure and corporate strategy support the safe delivery of affordable and reliable natural gas needed to meet U.S. energy demand. Over 77 million homes and commercial businesses in the continental US utilize natural gas. Williams remains dedicated to participating in the safe and reliable delivery of gas and in maximizing the value of our existing infrastructure. Williams plays a pivotal role in the liquefied natural gas value chain, which contributes to the global access and affordability of energy.As we look ahead in the power sector, the EIA predicts that natural gas will continue providing 34% of U.S. electricity generation by 2050. Over the same time period, the EIA expects renewables (hydro, geothermal, solar and wind) to increase to 44% of electricity generation by 2050.[1][1].U.S. Energy Information Administration, Annual Energy Outlook 2022 (AEO2022) Williams will continue to position ourselves as a long-term participant in the low-carbon economy by investing in emerging energy markets. We continue to support a sustainable, clean energy future and commit to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from our operations while helping our customers achieve their emissions reduction goals. Williams continues to assess solar generation opportunities that provide electricity to our existing natural gas compression and processing facilities. In 2021, we progressed 10 solar projects to the permitting phase, with plans for further development of these projects in the future. We predict that the projects currently under development across the Williams operational footprint will offset approximately 5% of Williams’ total energy usage. Williams anticipates the first of the solar projects to begin commercial operation in mid-2024.Male Williams technician in a hard hat and protective eyewear standing in front of pipeline infrastructure.Operations Technician Eric Gallihugh at the Transco compressor station in Virginia.Icon for United Nations Sustainable Development Goal number 8.DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH SDG Target 8.8: Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, particularly female migrants and those in precarious employment. Contribution to Relevant IndicatorsWilliams strives to foster a safe and healthy work environment where all employees feel empowered to advance their skills and make a difference in the world. Our pipeline and equipment integrity programs help protect the safety and security of our employees that work and live in close proximity to Williams’ natural gas infrastructure.Williams promotes a safety-first culture where all employees have the authority to stop work if they suspect a safety hazard. Every day, we aim for zero safety incidents and are committed to the overall wellness of our people. Williams’ safety performance is integrated into our core business activities and is one of the company’s Core Values. We strive for continuous improvements and set a safety performance goal of 10% reduction from the previous three-year average in employee recordable injuries for 2022. In addition, we set a goal to reduce annual process safety incidents by 10% in 2022.We are also proactive in advancing our safety culture into the future. We have a safety leadership training program for leaders at the director level and above, safety training questionnaires to track training participation and detailed safety culture assessments to understand gaps and improvement opportunities. Employee recognition is critical for reducing workplace hazards. We recognize employees for identifying and mitigating hazards through our Shifting Gears awards program.Pipeline infrastructure at the Transco compressor station in VirginiaPipeline infrastructure at the Transco compressor station in Virginia.Icon for United Nations Sustainable Development Goal number 9.INDUSTRY INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURESDG Target 9.1: Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional and transborder infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all. Contribution to Relevant IndicatorsAs one of the largest energy infrastructure companies in the U.S., Williams operates more than 30,000 miles of pipeline systems, handling approximately 30% of the nation’s natural gas. Our gathering, processing and transmission pipeline infrastructure services deliver clean, reliable and affordable energy. Williams’ products and services help improve quality of life by providing communities with clean energy to heat buildings and water, generate electricity, cook food and dry clothes. Williams’ natural gas infrastructure connects the best supplies to the best demand centers, including LNG terminals that serve global markets.Natural gas-powered electricity generation enhances reliability in the U.S. electric power grid and provides the necessary backup supply that supports growth in renewable forms of energy. The nation’s natural gas supply continues to grow, leading to stable and affordable energy costs for customers.Looking to the future, Williams is evaluating and implementing projects to grow our clean energy business through Williams New Energy Ventures group, while continuing to provide clean, reliable and affordable natural gas. We contribute to energy justice efforts, or equitable distribution of affordable energy, by connecting cleaner resources to residential, commercial and industrial customers that rely on reasonably priced, reliable heat and fuel. Female Williams employee in a hard hat and protective eyewear smiling at a co-worker.Field Office Administrator Tina Taylor in Charlottesville, Virginia. Icon for United Nations Sustainable Development Goal number 12.RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION SDG Target 12.6: Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle.Contribution to Relevant IndicatorsWilliams takes an active leadership position within our industry and the midstream sector to demonstrate transparent and sustainable achievements in ESG reporting. In 2020, we co-directed an initiative with the Energy Infrastructure Council (EIC) to launch the first-ever midstream company ESG reporting template. The template provides all midstream energy infrastructure companies with key sustainability metrics reportable to investors in a transparent and comparable way. To date, 17 midstream energy companies leverage this template. Since its launch, the ESG reporting template received strong investor support, demonstrating the value of transparent reporting across the midstream industry and investment community. Williams is actively participating in discussions to update the template with feedback from industry partners and investors. To review Williams’ published EIC ESG reporting template, see our environmental, social and governance website. Corporate Governance GRI 102-18; 102-23At Williams, our dedication to the safety, integrity and reliability of our operations starts from the top. For over a century, our commitment to strong Corporate Governance has helped to maintain the trust and confidence of our stakeholders. We continue to champion strong governance practices to achieve our performance goals. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines serve as a governance framework to address the operations and structure of the board and its committees. The governance and sustainability committee reviews these guidelines at least annually and recommends changes to the entire board, as necessary. Williams’ chief executive officer is ultimately responsible for the overall management and functioning of the company.In 2021, the board approved amendments further conforming the By-Laws of The Williams Companies, Inc. to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Additionally, the board approved clarifications to several sections including notice and record date provisions, quorum requirements and adjournment rights, among other items. The compensation and management development committee and the governance and sustainability committee charters included amendments clarifying that the board retains responsibility for chief executive officer succession planning. The board also amended all committee charters to clarify the ability to conduct business virtually.Shareholder Relations Williams strives to provide our shareholders with long-term, stable gains by delivering on our safety and reliability commitments. We maintain open dialogue with shareholders, including board-level engagement with institutional investors, allowing us to address issues, share relevant information and enhance alignment with shareholder expectations. In 2021, members of our executive management team attended two in-person investor conferences, 14 virtual investor conferences, 49 conference calls, five virtual Q&A sessions and four virtual non-deal roadshows.During such meetings, management may discuss Williams’ strategy, operations, ESG efforts and financial performance as well as broader energy industry topics and trends. The investor relations team at Williams also shares these same key messages with the financial community throughout the year via phone calls, video calls and email correspondence. In 2021, the investor relations team facilitated 15 ESG-focused investor conference calls, 12 of which included a member of the executive management team. Additionally, as a part of our 2021 corporate strategy process, Williams partnered with an external third party to conduct interviews with top investors, hedge funds and sell-side analysts to gain candid perspectives on our corporate strategy and ESG efforts. We value investor perspectives by carefully considering and evaluating them to determine alignment with our long-term corporate strategy and associated ESG efforts. For information on how we deliver online communications to shareholders, see our investor relations website.In January 2021, Williams hosted a virtual public ESG event, the first event of its kind across the midstream sector. During this event, our executive management team presented the company’s ESG performance, climate commitment and forward-looking strategy for sustainable operations. For more information regarding the event, see the virtual ESG event page on our investor relations website.In 2021, Williams received recognition in the Brendan Wood International Shareholder Confidence Index panel, rating in the Top 5 for U.S. Power and Utility Companies based on our communicated strategies for the year ahead.A male and a female Williams employee sitting around an office table, laughing while facing a co-worker.WILLIAMS WILL BE THEREConnecting ESG to CompensationWilliams continues to focus on the implementation and success of our ESG strategy. We design our compensation programs to align with company priorities and engage the entire organization to meet common goals. Our Annual Incentive Program (AIP) applies to all employees, including our executive officers, and includes environmental and safety targets. Williams updated our 2022 AIP to include additional ESG metrics, such as targets for behavioral near-miss-to-incident ratio and methane emissions reduction. ESG metrics now make up 15% of total performance in our AIP for all employees, including our executive officers. These enterprise-wide ESG goals clearly communicate our focus on reducing environmental, safety and operational risks. Our LOPC (including methane release) and safety reporting and improvement goals have been part of a multi-year strategy. Our strong reporting culture has produced a credible and actionable dataset built upon years of focus and learning. Additional information on Corporate Governance, such as director compensation, is in our 2022 Proxy Statement.Board of DirectorsGRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 405-1The Williams board of directors maintains responsibility for organizational planning, strategy and risk management programs, focusing on the major risks inherent in our business. The board creates and approves governance policies and best practices, incorporating feedback received from stockholders. Our executive management also plays an important role in implementing company processes and procedures and keeping directors informed about the business. Management provides regular reports to the board and board committees.In 2021, the Williams board met six times. Our board consisted of 13 accomplished and capable directors for the majority of 2021, and decreased from 13 to 12 directors after Vicki Fuller resigned in December 2021. Stockholders elect our directors annually by a majority vote in an uncontested election. All the directors are independent with the exception of our president and chief executive officer. Non-employee directors meet at each regularly scheduled board meeting without management present. At this time, the board’s current preferred governance structure is to have an independent director serve as board chair, separate from the role of chief executive officer.The Williams board has four standing committees: audit; compensation and management development; environmental, health and safety; and governance and sustainability. Each of our board committees are composed entirely of independent directors. In 2021, a minimum of five independent directors served on each committee. The committees provide updates on the committee activities at each regularly scheduled board meeting. For detailed information on each board committee, please see the board committee charters on the corporate governance page of our website. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines limit the number of public company boards on which a Williams director can serve. Williams’ Policy on Securities Trading prohibits our directors, officers and other employees from engaging in short sales, hedging transactions, speculative transactions or any transactions designed to hedge or offset a decrease in the market value of company securities. Company securities include common stock, debt, stock options and other derivative or non-derivative securities related to company stock.To promote strong performance and continuous improvement, our board adopted practices to evaluate their performance. The board and its committees conduct annual self-evaluations and self-assessments.Board of DirectorsHeadshot of Alan Armstrong.Alan ArmstrongHeadshot of Steve Bergstrom.Steve BergstromHeadshot of Nancy Buese.Nancy BueseHeadshot of Michael Creel.Michael CreelHeadshot of Stacey Doré.Stacey DoréHeadshot of Richard Muncrief.Richard Muncrief[1][1].Appointed to the board, effective March 1, 2022, following the retirement of Stephen Chazen.Headshot of Peter Ragauss.Peter RagaussHeadshot of Rose Robeson.Rose RobesonHeadshot of Scott Sheffield.Scott SheffieldHeadshot of Murray Smith.Murray SmithHeadshot of William Spence.William SpenceHeadshot of Jesse Tyson.Jesse Tyson[2][2].Appointed to the board, effective March 1, 2022, following the retirement of Charles Cogut.Male Williams employee in a suit jacket smiling down at his desk.Engineer Principal Webb Winston at Houston Tower.SELECTING BOARD MEMBERSGRI 102-24Maintaining a diverse board of directors allows for a broad range of viewpoints, experiences and perspectives — ultimately contributing to our business and operational success. Through our rigorous board selection process, we seek highly qualified, non-employee candidates with, among other qualities, demonstrated leadership abilities, a reputation for honesty and integrity and a commitment to represent shareholder interests. The board may elect, by a majority vote, a director candidate recommended by the governance and sustainability committee to fill a new opening or vacancy. Additionally, the board, upon the recommendation of the governance and sustainability committee, nominates director candidates for election at the annual meeting of stockholders. The board considers, among other things, expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics.The governance and sustainability committee evaluates the board’s composition to assess if it has the right mix of skills and experience. As part of its director evaluation and nomination process, the committee annually assesses the board’s diversity in such areas as geography, age, gender, race and ethnicity. We strive to maintain a board of directors with diverse occupational and personal backgrounds.We disclose information on our board’s composition related to diversity of gender, race and ethnicity in our proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders.In 2021, we enhanced our Corporate Governance Guidelines to adopt the “Rooney Rule” requiring consideration of candidates with a diversity of race, ethnicity and gender each time the governance and sustainability committee evaluates director candidates to fill a vacancy or new position on the board. These changes align with Williams’ commitment to Diversity and Inclusion for the board. In 2021, we appointed an additional female director, Stacey Doré. Following the departure of Vicki Fuller from the board in December 2021, and the impending retirement of two directors in April 2022, we announced the appointment of two independent directors to the board, Richard Muncrief and Jessie Tyson, effective March 1, 2022. The mandated retirement date for a director is the first annual meeting of stockholders following the director’s 75th birthday, unless otherwise voted on and waived. Two of our directors, Charles Cogut and Stephen Chazen, retired from the board in 2022 following this policy. Upon their retirement, the size of the board decreased to 12 directors. Headshot of Bob Riley.Our board members provide insightful perspectives and vigorous strategic oversight to keep Williams on the path to long-term, sustainable growth.BOB RILEY, VICE PRESIDENT AND ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL AT WILLIAMS2021 Board Demographics[1][1].As of April 26, 2022.Gender of Board MembersPie chart showing the following data.3	Female9	MaleAge of Board MembersPie chart showing the following data.1	30–50 Years Old11	50+ Years OldRace & Ethnicity of Board MembersPie chart showing the following data.1	Underrepresented Ethnicity and Race11	WhiteSustainability & Risk OversightGRI 102-20; 102-32The board of directors maintains responsibility for oversight and guidance on organizational planning, strategy and risk management. As part of this effort, the board participates in an annual strategy session to evaluate Williams’ long-term strategy, including top risks that could affect execution of the company strategy. Williams’ strategy team leads the annual strategic risk assessment process, identifying top risks, with input from senior leaders across the organization. For each top risk, we define a tolerance and assign a risk alignment rating. The risks may directly or indirectly correspond with sustainability topics for the company. The board of directors reviews results from the strategic risk assessment prior to or during the annual strategy session.Our investors, shareholders and other stakeholders continue to place emphasis on sustainability topics. The responsibility to oversee the sustainability of our business belongs to each of our board committees as well as to the full board of directors:.	The governance and sustainability committee maintains primary responsibility for providing oversight and guidance on ESG matters. This committee also receives progress updates on the development of our sustainability report during regularly scheduled committee meetings. .	The environmental, health and safety committee maintains responsibility for reviewing, monitoring and reporting to the full board on the company’s environmental, health and safety performance, including setting and reviewing key metrics and compliance with applicable regulations. This committee also shares oversight with the compensation and management development committee for employee health and development. .	The audit committee reviews the top risks identified by the company’s strategic risk assessment process, which may include risks linked to climate change..	The compensation and management development committee annually reviews the succession plans for the executive officer team, including the overall talent management process, which considers candidate diversity. This committee also modifies the compensation program, as needed, to help attain our sustainability-related goals. The committee shares oversight with the environmental, health and safety committee for employee health and development. Williams’ management team ensures ESG topics receive the proper attention in our long-term corporate strategy and operations. During our 2021 corporate strategy session, the board and executive officer teams discussed Williams’ long-term strategic outlooks, revalidated prior strategic direction decisions and identified any refinements to the corporate strategy.Sustainability starts at the top and cascades down the entire organization. Williams’ management-level ESG director maintains responsibility for engaging with Williams’ shareholders to understand ESG expectations and communicate our performance. Additionally, our ESG steering committee supports the development and implementation of Williams’ sustainability initiatives across the business. The Williams Integrated Management System and corporate policies drive integrated ESG practices into our everyday operations with the goal of making Williams a more sustainable company that dependably delivers value to our stakeholders. The Williams Integrated Management System applies to Williams employees, contractors, operating assets, projects and offices. We reference how we use our Integrated Management System to manage Williams’ key ESG topics throughout our annual sustainability report, which the full board of directors reviews prior to publication.ESG OversightDiagram depicting the structure of ESG oversight, roles and responsibilities. At the highest tier of the diagram is Board Oversight. At the middle tier is Committee Oversight. At the bottom tier is Management Oversight.Board Oversight of ESG.	Oversees a variety of critical initiatives, including our succession planning program and top talent pipeline program, which includes metrics related to gender and ethnic diversity..	Oversees management of ESG-related risks..	Oversees integration of ESG in our corporate strategy..	Reviews our annual Sustainability Report prior to publication.Committee OversightGovernance & Sustainability Committee.	Oversees the formulation of the Company’s ESG strategy and policies, including the Company’s engagement with its stakeholders..	Receives progress updates on the development of our Sustainability Report.Audit Committee.	Discusses policies around our strategic risk assessment framework, which includes risks linked to climate change.Environmental, Health & Safety Committee.	Monitors compliance with applicable and proposed legislation, regulations and orders..	Shares oversight with 
the Compensation & Management Development Committee for employee health and development.Compensation 
& Management Development Committee.	Modifies the compensation program as needed to help attain our sustainability-related goals..	Shares oversight with the EH&S Committee of employee health and development.Management Oversight.	Establishes process to make sure that accountability for ESG performance cascades across the organization.

.	Oversees the Williams Integrated Management System, which contains operating requirements, project standards and corporate policies to drive integrated ESG practices into our operations. The Williams Integrated Management System applies to all employees, contractors, operations, assets, projects and offices.Aerial nighttime photograph of an illuminated liquified natural gas storage facility.The Transco Pine Needle liquified natural gas storage facility in North Carolina. As energy demand continues to rise, Williams will be there for the communities that depend on our products and services. With the largest and most ﬂexible gas transmission system in the U.S., Williams can support growing energy demand while maintaining industry-leading emissions rates. Williams’ infrastructure safely delivers affordable and reliable energy needed to fuel the clean energy economy. We are embracing emerging technologies and adapting appropriately to meet clean energy demands while providing solutions that are available today.Energy Access GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3Williams provides the infrastructure needed to ensure access to equitably distributed and reliable energy. We are dedicated to maximizing the value of our existing infrastructure to bring affordable, reliable and low-emission fuels to the marketplace in a sustainable way. We do this by connecting the best supplies of natural gas with our country’s largest demand centers while also working to scale hydrogen and renewable energy.According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) Annual Energy Outlook, natural gas accounted for 37% of electricity generation in the U.S. in 2021. Looking to 2050, natural gas is projected to provide 34% of U.S. electricity generation, while wind and solar will be responsible for 36% in 2050. As we strive to meet the domestic demand for American-sourced energy, we remain committed to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations while also helping our customers achieve their emissions reduction goals. For additional information on reducing GHG emissions from our operations, see Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions.Williams safely and reliably handles 30% of the country’s natural gas and is proud that our infrastructure is part of the solution to ensure availability of natural gas to the 77 million homes and business utilizing natural gas in the continental U.S. Williams actively engages with the communities in our operational footprint on topics related to clean energy access. We often receive inquiries from local stakeholders on how they can access natural gas for their community. While Williams is not a utility or local distribution company, we provide insights and education for local representatives regarding the various ways they can access our products and services. Our executive-level oversight for energy access includes advocacy for the expansion of our services, especially in our existing operating areas. Williams’ leadership plays a vital role in articulating the market need to expand natural gas as an immediate clean energy solution while pursuing emerging energy sources.Natural gas will continue to be a critical part of the energy mix in 2050 while complementing the growth of renewable electricity sources.2010–2050 U.S. Electricity Generation[1][1].Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Annual Energy Outlook 2021 (AEO2021) Stacked area chart projecting U.S. electricity generation from various electricity sources from 2010 to 2050. The electricity sources include nuclear, coal, natural gas, solar, wind, hydro, and other renewables. The trend illustrates growth in overall electricity generation from 2021 to 2050, and shows the projected increases in shares of natural gas and renewable sources in the overall electricity mix over this period. Renewables — which includes solar, wind, hydro, and other renewables — made up 21.5% of electricity generation in 2021 and are projected to make of 44% in 2050. Male Williams employee in a hard hat working on valve equipment.Technical Specialist Michael Quinones at a metering station in New York City. Male Williams employee in a hard hat reading a meter on pipeline infrastructure.Operations Technician Ryan Steup at the Transco pipeline station 240 liquified natural gas storage facility in New Jersey.Energy Affordability & Reliability As one of the largest interstate pipeline transmission providers in the U.S., Williams’ pipeline expansion projects connect the best supply basins to some of the largest growing demand centers. Williams also aligns geographic operations and infrastructure expansion efforts to reduce expenses and achieve business objectives. By maximizing operational efficiencies, we are able to reduce costs while still safely and effectively delivering energy to communities across the U.S. Throughout 2021, Williams maintained robust reliability plans and contingencies that helped prevent supply disruptions to our customers and ultimately kept costs low for energy consumers. Given its abundant supply, affordability and ease of transport, natural gas is an ideal fuel to maintain power generation reliability, thereby protecting families and businesses from intermittency issues, rolling blackouts and higher electricity bills. Natural gas has the lowest carbon dioxide emissions-to-heat-content ratio when compared to other fuels and was 70% less expensive than electricity on a dollars per million British thermal units basis for the 2021-2022 winter heating season. Williams’ pipeline integrity and maintenance efforts ensure our systems operate with the least disruption possible. Taking proactive actions to maintain underground pipelines, aboveground facilities and other infrastructure effectively reduces costly service interruptions. These efforts also support the continued affordability of natural gas for end-use energy consumers. Despite challenges in 2021, such as the extreme winter temperatures that caused disruptions in Texas, Williams was able to quickly respond and serve our customers. Our monthly Customer Impacted Volumes (CIV) metric, which measures volumetric reliability from our customer’s perspective, remained between 99.69% and 99.89% throughout 2021. Our stable CIV percentage illustrates the resiliency of Williams’ natural gas system, providing reliable access to energy and meeting the needs of our customers.Transmission Reliability[1][1].Williams completes monthly evaluations across our transmission systems to identify operational conditions or maintenance activities which may have resulted in an impact to customer receipts or deliveries. Those evaluations are enumerated into the Customer Impacted Volume (CIV) percentage. The transmission systems CIV percentage is shown in the Transmission Reliability chart. Bar chart showing the Williams' transmission reliability between 2017 and 2021. In 2017, it was 99.97%. In 2018, it was 100%. In 2019, it was 99.99%. In 2020, 99.88%. In 2021, it was 100%. Economic Development By leveraging our highly reliable transmission and storage networks, our expertise and strategic relationships, Williams is able to contribute to local economic development and influence global economies. We focus on supporting economic development throughout our operations by creating jobs, investing in civic improvements and working with local service providers and international shippers. We recognize the importance of robust community engagement in our project planning, including with stakeholders from underserved population groups in communities affected by a planned project. In 2021, we further expanded our direct outreach to minority and low-income populations to share information about planned pipeline infrastructure projects in their communities, while gaining an understanding of challenges specific to these populations. This engagement allowed Williams to provide informed responses on the local economic benefits of pipeline infrastructure projects to the community. In 2021, the Williams community and project outreach and communications team developed an educational video related to the benefits of pipeline infrastructure projects. Learn more by watching the educational video on our website.Our pipeline infrastructure projects positively influence local economies and improve living standards by providing new or additional access to affordable energy. Additionally, Williams brings economic benefits locally through taxes to state and local governments. In 2021, we paid $194 million in property taxes across our locations. We also contributed more than $228 million in total Employer Federal Insurance Contribution Act taxes over the past 5 years.Williams executes pipeline infrastructure projects and brings economic benefits to communities across the United States. In particular, the two projects highlighted unlock access to clean and reliable natural gas to provide energy in growing Northeastern markets.LEIDY SOUTHIn 2021, Williams placed the Leidy South Expansion project into service. We placed components of this project into service ahead of schedule, allowing new volumes of natural gas to meet market demands earlier than expected. This project allows Pennsylvania gas producers to better connect robust supplies of natural gas in northern and western Pennsylvania with growing demand centers along the Atlantic Seaboard. The project will help the existing Transco pipeline system transport an additional 582,400 dekatherms of natural gas supply per day — enough natural gas to meet the daily needs of approximately 2.5 million homes.Leidy South generated economic benefits both for local communities and for those working directly on the construction phases of the project, such as the six local firms that Williams engaged for engineering and road-related work. The infrastructure investments and ongoing operations associated with the project will result in significant economic and fiscal benefits in Luzerne County, Schuylkill County, and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. An independent study by a third-party research firm showed that the project created hundreds of construction jobs in Pennsylvania and generated $100 million in direct benefit for the state. REGIONAL ENERGY ACCESSThe Regional Energy Access Expansion project continued progressing through various permitting stages in 2021. This expansion seeks to enhance existing energy infrastructure and increase Northeast consumer access to clean, affordable natural gas. The project will increase capacity by up to 829,000 dekatherms per day — bringing enough energy supply to power approximately 3 million homes. We work to analyze the potential and real outcomes of our expansion projects. In 2021, Williams commissioned a study by Wilkes University to provide a Pennsylvania-specific narrative summarizing the economic and local benefits for the Regional Energy Access Expansion project. The results of the Wilkes University study helped Williams better inform local stakeholders about project benefits. Williams also conducted a study with Rutgers, which took place during the initial stages of the project and revealed significant economic benefits at the state and county levels in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Alongside the expansion and modernization of our infrastructure, Williams is embracing emerging technologies and adapting appropriately to meet clean energy demands. We plan to construct the proposed Regional Energy Access Expansion project to be adaptable to future renewable energy sources like hydrogen and renewable natural gas blending.Quantitative Impacts 
of the Regional Energy Access Expansion Project ~6,396job years[1][1].One job-year is equivalent to one job lasting one year. $375Min GDP$295Min labor compensation$17.6Min state tax revenues$6.6Min local tax revenuesWILLIAMS WILL BE THEREMeeting the Demand for Reliable EnergyWilliams strives to support the growing demand for reliable and affordable energy in the U.S. Transco is a 9,800-mile, interstate transmission pipeline system extending from south Texas to New York City, and transports approximately 15% of the nation’s natural gas. Since 2008, Williams nearly tripled the contracted capacity on Transco to approximately 18.7 million dekatherms per day. This increased capacity resulted in Williams delivering a record amount of natural gas on our Transco interstate pipeline, providing essential and reliable service to natural gas distribution companies, electric power generators, liquefied natural gas exporters and other customers along the Eastern Seaboard and Gulf Coast. Williams accomplished this record amount of natural gas primarily through incremental growth projects along Transco’s existing footprint. In 2021, Williams pre-filed two proposed expansion projects for the Transco pipeline system to expand access to natural gas in areas of growing demand. The Southside Reliability Enhancement project focuses on expanding and modernizing the existing Transco pipeline’s capacity to North Carolina. The project leverages Williams’ existing natural gas infrastructure to support overall reliability and diversification of energy supply by adding much-needed infrastructure to meet growing demand for natural gas in the mid-Atlantic region. Once complete, the project will supply enough reliable natural gas to meet the needs of nearly 2 million homes in the region. The Commonwealth Energy Connector project focuses on expanding the existing Transco pipeline’s capacity to Virginia. The project will supply enough reliable natural gas to meet the needs of nearly 500,000 homes in the region. Construction and operation of the project are expected to have a positive economic effect on the surrounding communities. Payroll expenditures and locally sourced construction materials will inject funds into the local and regional economies. These projects are also expected to have a positive impact on tax generation in Virginia and North Carolina.As Williams continues to expand our pipeline infrastructure, we remain mindful of our operational impact on the environment. Natural gas and natural gas infrastructure enable the expansion of energy solutions by creating a reliable delivery network with a large-scale storage solution. We design our expansion projects with consideration of future renewable energy sources like clean hydrogen and renewable natural gas blending. See more information on our efforts to reduce GHG emissions and remain responsible stewards of the environment in Climate Change. Headshot of Micheal Dunn.At Williams, we’ve been embracing emerging technologies and adapting to clean energy demands. Central to our ability to meet clean energy demand today — and tomorrow — is our 30,000-mile natural gas network and the technology-driven flexibility that comes with it. Currently, Williams is safely powering America with our reliable natural gas infrastructure that spreads across 26 states and serves 77 million homes and businesses. More than a century in the making, our comprehensive network moves 30% of the nation’s natural gas to cleanly power bustling cities, vibrant suburbs, and rural communities across this great land.MICHEAL DUNN, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER OF WILLIAMSAerial photograph of New York City facing a body of water.Climate Change GRI 103-1Williams is deploying practical and immediate steps to reduce GHG emissions while investing in the technology needed to build a clean energy economy. We are proud of the critical role that natural gas plays in reducing emissions in the U.S. At the same time, we recognize that more needs to be done to mitigate the risks of climate change by investing in a sustainable, low-carbon future. We were the first North American midstream company to commit to actionable climate targets. We have reduced our company-wide Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 47% since 2005, and are on our way to meeting our 2030 goal of a 56% reduction. Our progress on this goal puts us on a positive trajectory toward our ambitions of net zero GHG emissions by 2050. Williams is strategically focused on reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions at this time. We continue to have ongoing conversations with internal and external stakeholders regarding the role of Scope 3 emissions for midstream pipeline companies. For additional information on reducing GHG emissions from our operations, see Operational Greenhouse Gas Emissions. Natural gas is a ready-now solution to reducing emissions while reliably meeting the demand for clean energy. Natural gas emits about half as much carbon dioxide as coal, and 30% less than oil — as well as fewer air pollutants — per unit of energy delivered. Natural gas plays a critical role in reducing CO2 emissions from the U.S. electric power sector. According to the U.S. EIA, over the past decade U.S. electricity net generation from natural gas has increased 30% while generation from coal has decreased 41%. Over that same time period, CO2 emissions from the electric power sector have declined by 24%. However, in 2021, natural gas market share declined as more coal-fired and fuel oil generation entered the mix. This occurrence was the leading cause of CO2 emissions from the U.S. electric power sector rising 7% versus 2020. Even while wind and solar market share grew during the same time period, it was not enough to offset the increased emissions from expanded use of coal and fuel oil. This exemplifies the continued importance of leveraging abundant, low-cost U.S. natural gas as a tool to displace heavy-emitting fuels, alongside renewables growth, to support clean energy demand domestically and globally. The U.S. EIA projects that domestic CO2 emissions from electricity generation will decrease by 24% from 2022 to 2035, due to the continued displacement of emissions-intensive coal with natural gas and renewable energy.Anticipated 2022 Capital Expenditures by Type[1][1].Anticipated CAPEX based on midpoint of 2022 guidance. Excludes acquisition of Trace Midstream assets.Pie chart showing the following data.$1.2B	Growth CapitalHigh priority investments drive sustainable long-term growth$100M	New Energy VenturesInvestments in renewables projects within our existing footprint$450M	Maintenance CapitalInvestments in business to keep assets in good working condition$250M	Modernization and Emissions Reduction Program CapitalModernize transmission infrastructure and reduce emissionsU.S. Electric Power Sector: CO2 Emissions vs. Natural Gas Market Share[2][2].Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, March 2022Double line graph comparing CO2 Emissions with Natural Gas Market Share in the U.S. Electric Power Sector from 2005 to 2021. The graph illustrates how as natural gas market share increases, CO2 emissions decrease.Male Williams employee in a suit jacket smiling to a woman at a conference table.Vice President of New Energy Ventures Brian Hlavinka.StrategyGRI 103-2Williams’ Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) strategy focuses on immediate opportunities to reduce emissions right here, right now. As part of that strategy, Williams is advancing our long-term climate commitment through continued execution of operational optimization and asset modernization and active engagement of Williams’ New Energy Ventures team. We are actively working to reduce carbon emissions and provide long-term, scalable solutions. Our approach to address immediate climate risks and pursue long-term opportunities includes: .	Connecting the best natural gas supplies to the lowest cost markets to maximize transportation efficiency, improve cost-effectiveness and significantly reduce associated emissions .	Funding and participating in research related to emissions quantification, monitoring, reporting and verification (QMRV) and methane reduction technologies.	Exploring and implementing clean energy opportunities, including renewable natural gas, solar energy, hydrogen, and carbon capture utilization and storage.	Advocating for sound, actionable energy and climate change policies.	Collaborating with research organizations and peer companies through key industry initiatives and trade organization involvement to uncover and implement innovative best practicesBy integrating sustainability practices throughout our everyday operations, we hold ourselves accountable to meeting our climate commitments. We transparently communicate progress with customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders.We are working to further align our corporate strategy with our approach to managing climate change. Williams uses a qualitative climate-related scenario analysis in our corporate strategy process to identify and test plausible scenarios of Williams’ future. The board and executive officer team consider a range of internally developed scenarios consisting of various market fundamentals and assumed related financial outcomes. We compared the developed scenarios to publicly available data, including data from third-party consultants, on 1.5 and 2.0 degree Celsius scenarios. In response, the board and management team evaluate strategic opportunities and investments. In 2021, the board discussed the New Energy Ventures implementation framework, program development and business development opportunities. Our New Energy Venture investment decisions consider emissions intensity for our company, customers and partners. We understand our climate-related practices and performance are of interest to external stakeholders. Williams continues to align our climate change reporting with the recommendations established by the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In 2021, we developed an index that maps our disclosures against the four TCFD thematic areas to increase transparency and help stakeholders easily identify relevant information.For additional information on how Williams manages the risks and opportunities of climate change, see our response to the 2021 CDP climate change questionnaire.Governance GRI 103-3Our commitment to mitigating climate change risk extends to all levels of the organization, from front-line employees to the board of directors. The board oversees the effectiveness of our ESG strategy and ensures that senior leadership focuses on critical sustainability matters, including climate change. While climate-related topics can arise within the purview of each board committee as well as the full board, the governance and sustainability committee maintains oversight for ESG strategy and policies. The governance and sustainability committee oversees the formulation of our ESG strategy and policies and reports on its oversight to the entire board. Additionally, the environmental, health and safety committee oversees compliance with applicable and proposed environmental legislation, regulations and orders; conformance with industry standards and best practices; asset reliability; operational risk management; asset integrity plans and programs; and performance in key environmental and safety metrics. Williams’ management-level ESG director leads the development and execution of our ESG strategy. The director’s duties include increasing ESG integration, raising the visibility of our ESG capabilities and engaging with shareholders to understand ESG expectations and communicate our performance. The ESG director reports to Williams’ vice president of investor relations and ESG. To promote strong governance across the enterprise over environmental practices, Williams has incorporated a new target into our all-employee Annual Incentive Program (AIP) to reduce methane emissions over a three-year average, starting in 2022. Alongside this target, we will continue to reduce our loss of primary containment (LOPC) events, including the unplanned or uncontrolled release of methane. We can influence short-term annual incentives for all employees eligible for our AIP by achieving these targets. We weighted the LOPC goal at 5% of our 2021 AIP for all employees, including the C-suite. See Employee Attraction, Retention & Development for more information about our AIP.Headshot of Lane Wilson.Williams has a long history of strong corporate governance with industry-leading disclosure and accountability policies. Our reputation as a dependable and trustworthy business hinges on our commitment to deliver on our promises.LANE WILSON, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL COUNSEL OF WILLIAMSAn illustrative black globe with countries outlined in neon blue, overlain by an array of neon white lines depicting intercontinental connectivity.WILLIAMS WILL BE THEREUnveiling New Energy VenturesIn 2021, we rebranded and expanded the Williams’ New Energy Ventures group focused on advancing innovative technologies, markets and business models. New Energy Ventures collaborates with talent across Williams, along with external partners and customers, to evaluate and implement projects that deliver environmental and financial gains. The team uses the following guiding principles to prioritize our areas of focus and investment. The New Energy Ventures strategy complements Williams’ core business and enhances our suite of infrastructure services available to energy markets..	Achieve carbon reductions for ourselves, our customers and partners.	Create economic value with actionable investments.	Target opportunities where our midstream competencies provide strong competitive advantages.	Provide scalable options for the futureThe U.S. Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, signed into law in 2021, allocates $9.5 billion to the U.S. Department of Energy. This allotment is adjacent to efforts in motion by the Williams New Energy Ventures group and will support the team in making forward progress. Of the total funds, $8 billion will go towards clean hydrogen hubs and $1 billion for research, development, commercialization and deployment of technologies that reduce the cost of hydrogen electrolysis. New Energy Ventures’ hydrogen strategy aligns with the Department of Energy’s funds for clean hydrogen hub development. The hubs will play an integral role in regional sustainability through decarbonization and economic advancement. Risk Management GRI 201-2 PHYSICAL RISKSWe recognize our business is subject to physical risks. Our assets and operations, as well as our customers’ assets and operations, can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, landslides, tornadoes, fires and other weather conditions such as extreme or unseasonable temperatures. Extreme weather conditions generally require more system backup, adding costs and increasing system stresses, including service interruptions. Williams is delivering products that are critical inputs for electricity generation, heating and cooking while supporting a clean energy future. We integrate climate-related considerations into key business planning and decision-making, and incorporate these considerations into our annual strategy and strategic risk assessment processes. Williams’ strategy team leads our annual strategic risk assessment process, which includes an internal survey to assess, score and prioritize risks that could affect Williams’ strategic objectives. Williams defined 30 enterprise risks consolidated into four categories. In 2021, we specifically integrated elements of ESG into approximately 13% of our risk definitions and recognize that climate change may manifest itself in our other risks as well. Survey participants include vice presidents and above, along with other key management and risk owners. Participants score each of the 30 risks on the degree of impact and likelihood of occurrence while providing perspectives on existing control effectiveness and perceived risk tolerance. Executive management validates top risks identified from the survey, agrees on risk tolerance and assigns executive accountability. The top risks identified through the process are provided annually to the board prior to or as a part of the corporate strategy process.Our business continuity planning and training include potential impacts from future weather and climate events and help Williams employees appropriately respond when such challenges arise. As part of our operating process, we incorporate sufficient resiliency into our operations and systems based on historical weather patterns in the different regions where we operate.We have faced, and will likely continue to face, opposition regarding these risks, including climate risk, associated with the operation and expansion of our pipelines and facilities, from some elected officials, environmental groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups and others. While natural gas is critical to the clean energy economy, we recognize that stakeholder opposition may affect our ability to maintain and expand our operations. For more information, see Public Perception.We are committed to providing a transparent story of our climate change performance. We understand that stakeholder expectations of our climate mitigation practices may change, and we may become exposed to new reputational, disclosure and reporting risks from increased scrutiny. As investor climate expectations increase, we will continue to enhance our procedures and standards when engaging with current or potential shareholders. We believe it is crucial to consider and, when appropriate, adapt to investor or other key stakeholder standards to protect our company value, regardless of legal requirements. We are committed to improving the information we disclose through our annual sustainability report and the CDP climate change questionnaire. Williams has responded to the 2019-2022 CDP climate change questionnaire to demonstrate a commitment to climate change transparency and governance. In 2021, Williams received a “B,” ranking above the sector oil and gas storage and transportation group average of “B-” as well as the North American regional average of “C.”Two male Williams employees in hard hats walking side-by-side next to a row of yellow valve wheels.Operations Supervisor Grant Friddell and Operations Supervisor Manager Stuart Roach at the Transco station in Virginia.A grassy field with trees and yellow wildflowers.Williams remains committed to maintaining biodiversity at the Pine Needle liquified natural gas facility in North Carolina.TRANSITION RISKSOur operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, many of which relate to climate change and GHG emissions. For example, the Oregon Environmental Quality Commission adopted three new rules in 2021 to reduce GHG emissions from harmful diesel engine exhaust, large stationary sources and transportation fuels. In Colorado, regulations passed in late 2021 that aim to reduce methane emissions, while also providing the oil and gas sector with more flexibility through an emissions intensity program. Despite the flexibility of the recent Colorado regulations, we recognize that these regulations may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and expenditures above our expectations if we do not factor them into our current operational risk management strategy.Climate change regulations and associated costs could result in increased operations and maintenance costs, inspection and performance testing requirements, new emissions control expenditures at our facilities or administrative changes to our GHG compliance program. We are taking steps to operationalize an internal cost of carbon on particularly impactful and actionable emissions sources and work practices to drive emissions reduction opportunities aligned with our climate commitment before a potential regulatory risk is actualized. We use an internal cost of carbon as an evaluation factor for projects and work practices that have the most potential to reduce our operational GHG emissions. Williams’ internal cost of carbon considers external carbon market values to direct our decision-making in a meaningful way.We continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments related to climate change and voluntarily pursue efforts to reduce GHG emissions from our facilities. Using the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative’s actual weighted average price of $9.61 per metric ton carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) in 2021, the gross expense to offset Williams 2021 Scope 1 emissions would be $108.7 million, which could be partially mitigated through customer agreements. This mindset of mitigating risks in a way that delivers long-term value to shareholders also drives our integration of cleaner energies and technologies, which will help mitigate climate change regulation risk.For additional information on the risks and opportunities of climate change, see our response to the 2021 CDP climate change questionnaire. For a full list of Williams’ risk factors, including those related to climate change, see our 2021 Annual Report.Programs & Initiatives As part of Williams’ efforts to pursue sustainable investments, in 2021, we established a venture capital budget for innovative climate change technologies such as hydrogen; carbon capture, utilization and storage; and renewable and responsible natural gas. For example, in 2021, Williams: .	Committed $25 million to Energy Impact Partners, a global venture capital firm looking to accelerate progress toward net zero GHG emissions by investing in venture and growth companies advancing critical climate solutions .	Partnered with Energy Innovation Capital to explore industry collaborations and opportunities for decarbonization investments.	Williams is an inaugural member of the Tulsa Innovation Labs Energy Tech Leadership Council, which was created to guide the development of initiatives that establish Tulsa, OK as the nation’s most inclusive tech community and a leading hub of energy innovationDIFFERENTIATED NATURAL GASWe strive to provide the best product to our customers while increasing our transparency and verifiability around quantifying and reducing methane emissions. Williams is one of the key sponsors of the Gas Technology Institute’s Veritas initiative. This nonprofit initiative brings together diverse stakeholders to develop methodologies for quantifying methane emissions intensities and better defining differentiated natural gas. In 2021, Williams began building a Responsibly Sourced Gas (RSG) program to leverage our connectivity to upstream natural gas producers and downstream customers to account for, or certify, the carbon intensity of a natural gas supply chain. For natural gas to be designated as RSG, an independent third party must verify that the gas meets the highest standards and practices to minimize the environmental footprint and safety occurrences. Williams received significant interest from utility and power customers about purchasing RSG from our Transco and Northwest Pipelines. In addition, customer interest and the location and asset profile of the Haynesville Basin makes it a preferred target area to begin demonstrating the vision for our enterprise-wide RSG program. In support of our RSG efforts in the Haynesville operating area, we are implementing a reference implementation to monitor and quantify methane at the source level using methane emissions monitoring equipment provided by Encino Environmental. Williams deployed artificial intelligence technology and operational data to determine the causes of the methane emissions and demonstrate effective emissions reduction opportunities. Following a successful deployment in the Haynesville basin, Williams selected Context Labs’ Decarbonization as a Service™ (DaaS™) technology. DaaS™ supports RSG gathering, marketing and transporting from well-head to end-user, providing verified emissions profiles and progress of GHG mitigation across the natural gas value chain. With DaaS™, Williams can offer differentiated services to our customers, including end-to-end measured, verifiable and transparent emissions data for real-time decision-making. In addition, we will gain new insights into day-to-day operations, allowing system optimization and emissions efficiencies and reductions across our asset base. RENEWABLE NATURAL GASWilliams is also making significant strides to advance our renewable natural gas (RNG) efforts. RNG is natural gas that is captured and transported from processing facilities, such as landfills and dairy farms. In 2021, we signed an interconnect agreement that will allow us to add up to 10 million cubic feet per day of RNG. This recent development will bring our overall portfolio to nearly 25 million cubic feet per day in the 2023 to 2024 timeframe; diverting this natural gas that would have previously been released is equivalent to removing 108,299 gasoline-powered passenger cars from the road.[1][1].2015 EIA Residential Energy Consumption Survey.We remain actively engaged with the public on RNG through our engagement with the Leadership Advisory Board on the Coalition for Renewable Natural Gas — a public policy advocacy and education platform for the RNG industry in North America. The coalition advocates for sustainable development, deployment and use of RNG so that present and future generations will have access to domestic, renewable, clean fuel and energy. Williams delivers RNG by partnering with renewable energy developers across the U.S. to transport methane from the emissions captured from landfills or dairy farms, where it is a byproduct of the waste decomposition process. Methane produced from waste is considered a renewable fuel and is captured as biogas rather than being released directly into the atmosphere. Williams’ pipeline systems are interconnected with seven RNG facilities, five of which are on Williams’ Northwest Pipeline.In 2021, we signed an interconnect agreement that will allow us to add up to 10 million cubic feet per day of RNG.HYDROGENAs a midstream industry leader, we believe we can successfully leverage our business as the world moves to a low-carbon future. Proactively engaging in and supporting low-carbon research positions us to be early adopters and industry leaders in developing clean energy technologies. Hydrogen offers versatility as a method for energy storage, a source of fuel and even a raw material input for various industrial and energy-intensive processes. This key tool for decarbonization could reduce downstream GHG emissions for customers and our infrastructure network, aiding them in achieving their own emissions reduction objectives. Williams is pursuing clean hydrogen opportunities, which we define as hydrogen resulting in a carbon footprint of less than 2.0 kilograms of CO2e per kilogram of hydrogen. Clean hydrogen results in an estimated 80% reduction from traditional production technologies. As we expand our clean hydrogen investments, we remain flexible on the method of production used as long as we are achieving the desired CO2e reductions. Williams believes that we will need all technologies to scale hydrogen, including hydrogen produced from renewable power and that produced from electrolysis or steam methane reforming coupled with carbon capture. Williams is studying the effects of blending clean hydrogen with natural gas in our pipeline infrastructure. We are currently developing a pilot project in New Jersey to blend clean hydrogen with natural gas to complement our larger Regional Energy Access Expansion natural gas project. This pilot project plans to incorporate hydrogen on a small scale, but will position Williams to demonstrate how we leverage new and existing infrastructure for hydrogen. We are also evaluating the use of hydrogen sourced from renewable power and electrolysis, combined with carbon dioxide, to generate synthetic natural gas and distribute it to our customer base. Early results indicate that synthetic natural gas production can reduce carbon dioxide emissions without adverse effects on existing pipeline infrastructure.Creating Value With a Net Zero ApproachSolar ProgramDeveloping 10 solar projects generating clean energy to reduce utility demand at current and future facilitiesRenewable Natural Gas InitiativesConstructing new interconnects and investing in projects to expand RNG productionLow Carbon Gas Product OfferingWorking with customers and partners to offer products like responsibly sourced gas (RSG) and carbon offset natural gas Hydrogen Development ProgramLeading efforts to develop H2 infrastructure, production, and opportunity to blend into natural gas pipelinesCarbon Capture Utilization and Storage Development ProgramCreating opportunity for fossil-based fuels to play a larger role in a clean energy futureRenewable Power Transmission and Generation ProgramPartnering with renewable energy developers by bringing Williams’ infrastructure-focused expertise to support projectsClean Energy Hub PartnershipsIntegrating renewable and other low carbon technologies into existing infrastructure to drive production and delivery of clean molecules at scaleCorporate Venture ProgramExploring investments in innovation to enable a low carbon futureCarbon Markets ProgramOptimizing carbon attributes to achieve emissions goals and create additional revenue opportunitiesFloating hydrogen molecules.WILLIAMS WILL BE THEREHydrogen LeadershipAs a founding member of the Clean Hydrogen Future Coalition, we work with fellow energy companies, labor unions, utilities, nongovernmental organizations, equipment suppliers and project developers. Together we are working to identify specific actions that the U.S. can take to create and scale the clean hydrogen economy.Williams is exploring Power-to-X projects in the United States and is identifying ways to leverage hydrogen expertise with our infrastructure and operating experience to develop hydrogen or synthetic natural gas facilities powered by renewable energy technology. We are studying electrolysis and synthetic gas-via-methanation in western Wyoming, where Williams owns significant land and natural gas infrastructure.As part of our membership of the Pipeline Research Counsel Emerging Fuels Institute, Williams is reviewing the integrity implications around delivering hydrogen using pipelines. This includes examining how to safely store hydrogen in underground storage facilities and how to safely repurpose natural gas pipelines to include hydrogen blending service. Williams is also engaging with pipeline companies in Europe to hear their lessons learned related to hydrogen development.In 2021, the Wyoming Energy Authority (WEA) selected Williams to participate in the state’s Hydrogen Pilot Project. The study aims to demonstrate the successful design and construction of green and blue hydrogen production and use. The WEA awarded Williams a grant for nearly $1 million to complete a feasibility study. With the support of the University of Wyoming School of Energy Resources, Williams will evaluate water access, compatibility and asset integrity in support of green hydrogen production and transport in the vicinity of Wamsutter and Opal, Wyoming, where Williams has facilities. To show Williams’ commitment to supporting the state’s clean energy hub objective, Williams provided an additional $200,000 to the study, which we plan to complete in 2023. As the industry advances hydrogen transportation solutions, ammonia presents itself as a suitable carrier of clean hydrogen through large-scale ammonia storage and long-term transportation. Hydrogen molecules can be paired with nitrogen to make ammonia, which can be extracted at the point of hydrogen demand or utilized as ammonia. Williams has the capability and expertise to transport liquid ammonia, as demonstrated by our existing ammonia pipelines near the Houston Ship Channel. CARBON CAPTURE, UTILIZATION & STORAGETo achieve net zero emissions by mid-century, the world will need to leverage carbon capture, utilization and storage to decarbonize hard-to-abate industrial applications. Williams already captures carbon dioxide at some gas processing and treatment plants. At our Dilley treatment facility in Texas, we capture an amine vent stream, which is primarily carbon dioxide, and inject it into an underground disposal well. At our Parachute Creek gas processing plant in Colorado, we capture carbon dioxide through amine treatment of the gas stream and provide that as a raw material for industrial chemical production. In early 2022, Williams joined the Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute, an international think tank whose mission is to accelerate the deployment of carbon capture and storage (CCS) globally. We will collaborate with the broad membership base and expertise of the Global CCS Institute to develop innovative projects and support shaping policies that prioritize CCS efforts for a lower-carbon future. We continue to evaluate capture and sequestration opportunities across our asset footprint and collaborate with our customers and industry peers to assess regional sequestration hubs. Headshot of Chad Zamarin.It’s through technology innovation and collaboration with forward-thinking companies that we can leverage our assets and expertise to develop solutions to advance the clean energy economy.CHAD ZAMARIN, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT FOR CORPORATE STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT AT WILLIAMSPublic Perception GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3Our goal is to sustain positive relationships with our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. Williams strives to serve as a good neighbor, retain support for our operations and promote the success of our expansion projects. We actively engage with communities, customers, nongovernmental organizations, industry associations and government officials to understand different perspectives and explore collaborative outcomes built on open communication. Managing public perception and educating stakeholders about our products is an enterprise-wide endeavor, and cascades directly down from our executive officer team to our boots-on-the-ground team. Williams executives actively engage in meetings with stakeholder organizations and elected officials, and participate in community events that enhance public knowledge of our products and perception of Williams. Ultimately, every Williams employee plays a role in managing the perception of our business. We developed the Williams Ambassador program to support employees in their endeavors to educate friends, family and colleagues about Williams’ position in a clean energy future. The program provides tools for employees to have quality, fact-based conversations about Williams and the natural gas industry.Helping stakeholders understand the environmental and social benefits of natural gas is essential for progressing the world’s transition to clean and renewable energy, as well as reducing reputational risks to our business strategy that may originate from misinformation. We maintain early and frequent engagement with our stakeholders using various management tools and resources to inform our engagement, such as stakeholder, advocacy and membership databases; social media monitoring; polling and research; and a local municipal tracking software, to name a few. We aspire for stakeholders across our operational footprint to feel engaged through all phases of our projects. During our Regional Energy Access Expansion project, we monitored a variety of stakeholder metrics and engaged with a nongovernmental organization to confirm that local stakeholders did not view the project as significantly controversial. Our active, ongoing stakeholder engagement approach resulted in several opportunities to share project information with a wide variety of constituencies. The project’s outreach team identified several organizations, including local, regional and statewide organizations, to provide briefings and project materials. Additionally, we held a series of events with first responder organizations to share project information relevant to facilities planned for their coverage area. The company also directly reached out to several community-based organizations to broaden the scope of our stakeholder engagement. Using bilingual project materials, the outreach effort sought to provide stakeholders with information in the appropriate language. To keep local, county and state officials informed about the project scope and schedule, we held a series of meetings with officials in the spring and fall. We conducted these meetings both virtually and in-person, and provided detailed project information. We continuously seek opportunities to recognize and understand local sentiment related to our operations and proposed projects. In 2021, we launched polling and research efforts to understand how the public views our brand, operations and proposed projects. In addition, we used a local municipal tracking service to monitor instances where local meetings reference Williams. Female Williams employee speaking with a male stakeholder in a field with brush.Permitting Manager Lynda Schubring with a stakeholder in Pennsylvania.Man in a blue polo shirt, smiling and standing with his arms crossed in a gift shop.President and Chief Executive Officer of the Williamsport/Lycoming Chamber of Commerce Jason Fink in Pennsylvania.Williams maintains a wide range of public education efforts, initiatives and partnerships to manage our public perception. In 2021, Williams created new partnerships with community-based organizations and translated materials to improve engagement with low-income, minority and non-English-speaking members of the communities where we operate and have proposed projects. Other outreach efforts in 2021 included: .	Creating an educational video for the public related to the benefits of pipeline infrastructure projects.	Initiating targeted awareness efforts from our internal subject matter experts.	Tracking branding research campaign performance over timeWe adapted our use of social media to educate the public on the value of natural gas and Williams’ commitment to a clean energy future, focusing our engagement on the local communities where we have proposed expansion projects. In 2021, we enhanced our social media advertising for the Regional Energy Access Expansion project in New Jersey, and launched a video content collection initiative for the Leidy South project. The final compilation video captures in-the-field construction work and interviews with local community members discussing the positive economic effects of the large-scale pipeline project on small businesses, contractors, vendors and local governments. Watch the educational video on our website. We host town hall and community meetings to gain feedback and discuss the benefits of our projects to local communities, the environment and the economy. We will continue our strong leadership efforts to advocate for a clean energy economy that includes natural gas. In 2021, we conducted both in-person and virtual events, with improvements to the virtual open house format to allow attendees to communicate directly with Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) representatives and view a recorded version of the virtual open house after the live event. For example, our improved format allowed us to conduct in-person and virtual events for our proposed Southside Reliability Enhancement project. For more information on our community outreach efforts, see Community Relations, and for more information on our public policy, see Public Policy.Public Perception StatisticsDo you agree or disagree that Williams makes clean energy happen?Pie chart showing the following data.19.55%	Strongly Agree11.69%	Somewhat Agree49.21%	Neutral4.69%	Somewhat Disagree14.86%	Strongly DisagreePublic Policy GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3Sustaining future growth for our operations depends, in part, on our ability to garner support for expanding energy infrastructure in North America. Government policies at the federal, state and local levels affect the viability of our existing operations and future projects. We engage with government stakeholders and regulatory agencies on energy policies and other topics influencing our operations. Williams’ state government and regulatory affairs team engages with policymakers and other government stakeholders at the state and local levels on our policy and regulatory agenda. We continue to take a bipartisan approach in our public policy outreach. In 2021, Williams presented on energy issues at a Republican Governors Association meeting and participated in a Democratic Governors Association meeting. Additionally, we continued using our comprehensive stakeholder management system to enhance our bipartisan engagement through newsletters and other corporate communications. This system allowed us to better track support for the company initiatives that we implemented.We recognize that ESG issues are increasing in significance for governments, regulators and other important stakeholders. In 2021, we engaged on a variety of ESG issues, including energy reliability and justice, environmental justice, cybersecurity preparedness and GHG emissions reductions. For example, Williams participated in a November 2021 FERC technical conference on GHG emissions mitigation. We also provided detailed comments on the FERC’s review of its 1999 Policy Statement on the Certification of New Interstate Natural Gas Facilities. Our engagement with the FERC allowed us to provide the Commission with meaningful input on challenging issues.In 2021, we saw significant positive action related to hydrogen. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework, signed into law by President Biden in November 2021, contained a number of hydrogen-related provisions that aim to reduce the cost of electrolytic hydrogen to less than $2 per kilogram of hydrogen. Williams plans to engage with the U.S. Department of Energy to discuss our efforts in clean hydrogen research and development, and related funding opportunities. Williams’ vice president of New Energy Ventures gave testimony before the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources in early 2022, explaining the opportunities and challenges of using clean hydrogen to further decarbonize energy production and consumption. In 2021, Williams also saw increased federal focus on energy reliability and cybersecurity preparedness for the natural gas pipeline sector. This was a direct result of the disruption to power supplies across Texas due to cold weather, and to fuel supplies along the East Coast due to a ransomware attack against the Colonial Pipeline Company in 2021. Our chief executive officer participated in White House meetings with representatives across industries to discuss how to improve cybersecurity and combat future threats. At the same time, the regulatory landscape in 2021 created some uncertainty for the natural gas industry. We encountered challenges at the local level, including policies banning natural gas. Such opposition to natural gas heightens the need for Williams to continue educating our stakeholders on the importance and benefits of natural gas, as we transition to a low-carbon economy. In November 2021, Williams’ chief executive officer published a sponsored piece in Politico, describing the key role of natural gas in the clean energy future. Two female Williams employees facing each other and smiling.Network Analyst Thuy-Ai Ngo and Business Process Analyst Andrea Lewis at the Williams headquarters in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Political Contributions GRI 415-1 Williams takes a bipartisan approach for our political contributions to support the advancement of our business interests and those of our industry. Before Williams contributes to candidate campaigns, our legal department reviews each proposed contribution to confirm compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our governance and sustainability committee annually reviews our political contributions.Williams’ nonprofit political action committee, WILLCO PAC, is registered with the Federal Election Commission. WILLCO PAC is an independent, nonpartisan entity that raises contributions from eligible Williams employees to support candidates for congressional and state offices, where permitted by law. Through contributions to WILLCO PAC, our employees support policies that enable the delivery of all forms of clean energy. Employee participation in WILLCO PAC is strictly voluntary. In addition to PAC giving, in 2021 Williams made corporate political contributions at the state level to members of both political parties totaling $230,275. We comply with lobbying registration requirements and verify that our contract lobbyists are in compliance. The Center for Political Accountability’s CPA-Zicklin Index measures political disclosure and accountability policies and practices for election-related spending by S&P 500 companies. Williams has been recognized, for the third year in a row, as a “Trendsetter Company,” scoring over 90% on this comprehensive ratings index. We provide a link on our website to the Office of the Clerk for the U.S. House of Representatives, where our federal disclosures for lobbying activities are available, including our aggregate spending for lobbying and payments to lobbying service providers. We also provide yearly political corporate contribution reports and reports of corporate funds expenditures to trade associations.Male Williams employee wearing a hard hat and reading a meter, while surrounded by two other employees, one facing him and the other with his back turned to him.Operations Technician Lead David Meador at the Pine Needle liquified natural gas facility in North Carolina.Headshot of Lori Ziebart.Williams was a first-mover in collaborating with the EIC and other midstream companies in the development of the most consequential and highest priority ESG metrics for the industry. The time and leadership Williams committed to this process resulted in a valuable reporting tool that brings much needed consistency to the ESG landscape.LORI ZIEBART, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AT ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE COUNCILTrade Associations GRI 102-13 Williams engages with a wide range of trade associations at the national, state and local levels. We find value in engaging with trade associations that share our positions on key public policy issues, but also engage with those that do not align with our public policy positions. The following are examples of the major trade associations and industry coalitions we engaged with in 2021:.	American Petroleum Institute .	American Society of Mechanical Engineers .	American Society of Safety Professionals .	Association of Oil Pipelines .	The Business Roundtable .	Clean Hydrogen Future Coalition .	Coalition for Renewable Natural Gas .	Common Ground Alliance .	Energy Infrastructure Council .	Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute.	GPA Midstream .	Interstate Natural Gas Association of America .	Marcellus Shale Coalition .	National Society of Professional Engineers .	Northwest Gas Association .	Southern Gas AssociationContinued active membership and leadership roles in trade associations and industry coalitions help us amplify the industry voice and collectively work on public policy priorities. For example, Williams’ vice president of New Energy Ventures is a founding board member of the Clean Hydrogen Future Coalition, which supports the adoption of clean hydrogen in the U.S.Williams is a member of Energy Infrastructure Council (EIC), and our chief executive officer serves on the board and on the board’s ESG Working Group. Williams helped EIC launch the first-ever midstream company ESG reporting template. We observed 15 midstream companies and investors adopt the template in the first year after its release. For more information, see our environmental, social and governance website.In 2021, Williams’ chief financial officer and chief operating officer participated in meetings with investors at the 2021 EIC Investor Conference. Our chief operating officer also engaged in a fireside chat Q&A session, discussing Williams’ work with connecting the energy value chain. A recording of this session and slide deck presentation for investors is available on our investor relations website.Williams discloses all expenditures of corporate funds used for nondeductible lobbying and political expenditures on our website.Female Williams employee wearing a hard hat and eye protection, looking off to the side in a grassy field with trees.Senior Environmental Specialist Shannon Turek at a 260-acre preserve near our station 240 in New Jersey.