Building an Empowered WorkforceOur employees are our most valuable resource and we have a longstanding commitment to attracting, developing and retaining the very best talent in 
the industry. We take pride in our high-performing culture and our low turnover rate, which highlights 
the importance of investing in our people so they can reach their full potential. We believe that we create long-term value by conducting our business ethically and creating a culture of respect. Our founders, 
Dave and Miller Williams, set the tone in 1908 as they began a legacy with the motto, “a good job on time.”Project Analyst Jennifer H. in Tulsa, Oklahoma.Diversity & InclusionGRI 103-1Increased racial tensions across the United States and globally in 2020 served as a stark reminder that, 
as a company and a nation, work 
still needs to be done to address ongoing discrimination and inequity issues. Williams wants all employees to feel respected and valued for 
their contributions. We believe that Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) fosters innovation and collaboration, brings out the best in our people and drives business success. We are working 
to embed D&I in our daily culture through leadership accountability, employee education, workplace practices and proactive allyship. Governance GRI 103-2; 103-3Williams’ commitment to D&I starts 
at the top, and our leadership is vocal about embracing a diverse 
and inclusive workforce. Our chief executive officer (CEO) pledged support for the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Coalition. 
This pledge outlines a specific 
set of actions that signatory CEOs will take to cultivate a trusting environment in which employees 
feel comfortable and empowered 
to have conversations about D&I.These actions include implementing unconscious bias education, encouraging ongoing dialogue 
and sharing strategic inclusion 
and diversity plans with the board 
of directors.Our senior vice president and 
chief human resources officer 
is responsible for D&I at Williams 
and reports directly to the CEO 
about D&I issues. Both of these senior executives also sit on the Diversity and Inclusion Council, which includes our entire executive officer team and high-performing employees from across the company. The Diversity and Inclusion Council identifies D&I opportunities and initiatives 
to implement throughout our organization. The senior vice president and chief human 
resources officer reports to the 
board of directors regarding 
D&I on a biannual basis. In 2020, the Diversity and 
Inclusion Council formed a 
metrics subcommittee to create a comprehensive view of our current workforce and provide data needed to set short- and longer-term goals and initiatives related to increased diversity.The Diversity and Inclusion Council developed an internal metrics dashboard to help identify gaps, track progress and prioritize improvements in hiring and retention. In early 2021, this data was shared internally in our inaugural annual Diversity and Inclusion Report. Williams has several policies that reinforce our commitment to an inclusive workplace. Our Code of Business Conduct includes expectations for creating a positive work environment. Williams’ Equal Employment Opportunity Policy outlines our approach to providing equal employment and advancement opportunities for all. Our Prohibition of Workplace Discrimination and Harassment Policy defines our commitment to preventing 
workplace discrimination and harassment. Williams communicates diversity-related policies to employees through our internal intranet site, company-wide communications and team meetings. We annually train on these policies through our Code of Business Conduct and Harassment trainings.Resources 
& TrainingWe believe that every employee contributes to building an inclusive culture, and we provide a variety of tools and resources to employees and leaders to help them do so. 
In 2020, we expanded the Williams 
D&I resource library to help facilitate candid conversations at work and home about racial injustice and discrimination. The resources include a Leader Inclusion Playbook to help teams navigate conversations about inclusion, reading resources and topical webinars. We also created 
a D&I feedback form to capture employee thoughts and suggestions on fostering an inclusive environment at Williams.In 2020, we introduced an ongoing educational platform, Catalyst, 
to provide additional tools and resources that stimulate meaningful conversations, drive social awareness and promote allyship across the company. The senior management team completed a Catalyst “Leading Inclusive Teams” training, which provided necessary leadership skills to manage diverse teams and build a more inclusive workplace. Williams will require all individuals in formal leadership roles to complete the training in 2021. 
Our corporate membership with Catalyst also allows each employee to register with their work email address to access all content, free of charge, including research, webinars and exercises.We also implemented a series of enterprise-wide panel events called Candid Conversations, designed to encourage dialogue and allow employees to develop a deeper understanding of our diverse backgrounds. In 2020, we held three related events and will continue this program in 2021. We also created 
a D&I Microsoft Teams channel to provide employees a safe space to engage in conversation and dialogue.In 2020, we revitalized our employee resource groups to provide formal and grass-roots opportunities for dialogue, information-sharing and networking to promote a more inclusive culture for all employees. Current employee resource groups include veterans, women and LGBTQ employees. These groups function in a flexible and responsive way to the changing needs of our organization and our employees. Employee committees also help facilitate new and exciting initiatives. For example, an employee-led Black History Month committee planned our first enterprise-wide Black History Month program.Diverse Employee RepresentationGRI 405-1We strive for diverse representation at all levels through our talent management practices and employee development programs. We are committed to helping all employees elevate into company leadership positions by creating 
an equitable playing field. Williams is dedicated to providing leadership development opportunities for all employees. We emphasize D&I during all development conversations and succession planning initiatives. 
In 2020, 26% of our leadership team was female or ethnic minority. Our female leadership representation increased from 16% to 18% from 2019 to 2020, while ethnic minority leadership representation stayed 
flat at about 10%. Williams is addressing gender 
and ethnic representation in 
our field workforce. Through 
strategic partnerships with organizations such as Catalyst 
and Women’s Energy Network, 
we are accelerating leadership development and expanding opportunities for diverse employees. For example, we are involved with Men Advocating for Real Change (MARC), a Catalyst initiative that inspires men to leverage their 
unique opportunity to be advocates for equity. We attended a MARC conference in 2020 and launched related programs within the company.We implemented a broader selection of identifiers for employees to select in our human resources system’s self-identification process. Options now include race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, preferred gender pronoun and employee resource group affinity. In doing so, we are able to facilitate broader diversity reporting at the enterprise level and better employee engagement.Inclusive hiring practices and developing a diverse talent pipeline are important ways we promote inclusion in our workforce. Williams works to cast a wide net in recruiting for potential employees to consider many different qualified applicants. We also partner with universities and technical schools to support education and internship opportunities for diverse students. In 2020, we expanded our strategic partnerships with schools, implemented more inclusive job descriptions and refreshed our interview guides to include D&I-focused questions. 
For additional information on our hiring and development practices, see page 78.Williams was the first major energy infrastructure corporation to have a female chair. Dr. Kathleen Cooper retired from the board in 2020, but we have continued our long practice of having gender diversity on our board by adding two new female directors this past year. See the Corporate Governance section on page 13 for more information about our board of directors.I am passionate about working in a culture that lifts up and provides a voice to all. Receiving this award is meaningful and humbling. The most important thing I can do as a leader is to nurture and develop our people and continue paving the way for their success. KANDI WILSON, SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGER AT WILLIAMSWILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTChampioning 
Diversity & InclusionIn 2020, Kandi Wilson, manager of central service’s supply chain, received Williams’ Randy Barnard Leave the Ladder Down Award. This award 
honors those who serve as a champion of inclusion and reinforce Williams’ inclusive culture.The Leave the Ladder Down Award program began in 2008 as a way 
to recognize leaders who model the Williams Way—treating employees, customers, business partners, shareholders and the communities we 
serve with respect and dignity. Kandi promoted minority-owned vendors 
and was instrumental in creating the new Code of Conduct for Suppliers 
and Contractors that requires vendors to adhere to our strong Code and 
Core Values, including respect for human rights.Supply Chain Manager Kandi W. and Williams’ President and CEO Alan A. in Tulsa, Oklahoma.100%of employees are required to complete sexual harassment training each year to recognize and avoid the types of behaviors that contribute to 
an uncomfortable work environment. We monitor this training to ensure 100% completion.Williams 2020 Diversity Data*Ethnic Diversity at WilliamsGender Diversity at Williams15% ethnically diverse85% not ethnically diverse21% women79% menRoles Held by Female Employees at WilliamsRoles Held by Ethnically Diverse Employees at Williams39% technical and support roles61% professional 
and managerial roles27% technical and support roles73% professional 
and managerial roles*Data represents the roles held by female and ethnically diverse employees at Williams, respectively. Technical roles use operational and technical skills to support work done typically in a non-office setting, such as a pipeline station or processing facility. Support roles use technical and operations skills to support office related or administrative work. Professional roles primarily achieve results through individual contributions, internal consulting, and project management. Managerial roles are accountable for functional and/or program management and typically manage the work of two or more individuals.Employee Attraction, Retention & DevelopmentGRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 404-3Employee AttractionWilliams’ strategic and operational business results rely on attracting 
the best talent in the industry. We leverage various recruiting strategies to hire candidates aligned with 
our business needs. Our primary recruitment platforms include external job boards, our Williams Careers site, career fairs, university programming and community partnerships. We also offer a Talent Scout Incentive program to broaden Williams’ candidate pool through employee referrals.In 2020, we focused on inclusive hiring processes. Our Diversity 
and Inclusion Council and executive leadership identified increasing diverse talent in the recruitment 
and application process as an important focus area. To do so, we refreshed interview guides with inclusive questions aligned with Williams’ core competencies. We launched a training for hiring managers focused on inclusion in the interview process and diversified our interview panels when possible. We also utilize Textio, a writing tool that helps identify hidden biases in writing, while drafting job descriptions to make them more inclusive.Williams partners with universities and technical schools in the United States to recruit for entry-level opportunities and paid internships. 
In 2020, 29 students joined the company from 15 universities, spanning nine states. We continue 
to expand our partnerships and program giving with a special focus on underrepresented student groups and programs. We also partner with Genesys 
Works, an organization that provides pathways to career success for 
high school students in underserved communities. These students gain tools for success as they develop meaningful relationships with Williams mentors and learn professional skills to work in a corporate environment. Over 70 high school students have interned at Williams over the last decade and, in 2020, all seven interns were college-bound. Even when the pandemic forced a shift 
to remote work, we retained our interns and created new ways for them to contribute from home.Employee Retention & DevelopmentOur employees are instrumental in our mission to safely deliver products that fuel the clean energy economy. Williams employs nearly 5,000 people across the United States 
and supporting each of them in their professional and personal lives is 
key to our success as a company. 
As our company grows, we remain focused on creating a safe, inclusive workplace where employees feel valued and heard.Our retention efforts, which include professional development opportunities and a leading benefits package, allowed us to maintain a low voluntary turnover rate of 4.6% 
in 2020, compared to 6.1% in 2019. We conduct employee engagement surveys to identify Williams’ 
strengths and weaknesses from 
our employees’ perspectives. The survey results help us evaluate and continuously improve our approach to employee engagement.We encourage employees to engage in open dialogue regarding their professional development through ongoing, one-on-one meetings 
with supervisors and during formal performance reviews. We measure performance through the achieved results associated with attaining annual business goals, operational and functional area strategies, 
and personal development 
plans. Additionally, we evaluate observable skills and behaviors based on our defined competencies that contribute to workplace effectiveness and career success. In 2020, 100% of employees received a performance assessment and 10% received a promotion.We value our employees and want 
to provide internal development opportunities. In 2020, we placed 
an intentional focus on recruiting internal talent for new development and promotional opportunities. Williams’ internal human resources system allows employees to view and apply to all currently posted requisitions. We fill approximately 42% of all open positions from within.2020 Employee Age Distribution10% under 
30 years old60% 30–50 
years old30% over 50 years oldWILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTSupporting 
Our VeteransWilliams sponsored the Disabled America Veterans guide to 
hiring and retaining veterans with disabilities. The guide uses best practices for hiring and retaining veterans. Veterans gain exceptional experience and rigorous technical training through the military, making them ideal candidates for positions at Williams. These 
skills directly align with our need for adaptability, quick learning, accountability and effective project execution. We strategically 
recruit military veterans through virtual career fairs, targeted 
social media campaigns, virtual information sessions and direct partnerships. We recruit veterans for positions at all levels in the organization and, as a result of our efforts, more than 8% of Williams employees in 2020 were veterans. In addition to military leave, Williams provides pay offset by any military pay, and benefits, 
for up to 12 months of military leave.Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategic Development Chad Zamarin and Williams’ President and CEO Alan Armstrong at the 2020 Veterans Day Parade 
in Tulsa, Oklahoma.90rating received 
by Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index in 2020.At Williams we deeply value our employees and see them as one of our greatest assets, and therefore invest in them. This starts with making sure we’ve made ourselves an appealing 
and attractive employer to all talent. We set the guidelines for 
all employees to be successful, be developing and be part of 
a truly inclusive culture. MIKEALE CAMPBELL, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION PROGRAM MANAGER AT WILLIAMSTraining ProgramsWilliams offers robust corporate and technical training programs coupled with strong employee engagement 
to support the professional development of our employees 
and long-term business value. We provide training opportunities that reflect an employee’s position, specific responsibilities and the 
local regulatory environment. On average, Williams’ employees completed 37 hours of compliance and technical training in 2020, 
in addition to leadership and development training not tracked through our learning management system. Field employees typically require more training than office-based personnel due to the nature of the 
job. In total, employees completed 174,000 hours of corporate 
and technical training in 2020. Training expenditures decreased significantly in 2020 compared to previous years primarily due to COVID-19 restrictions that limited in-person meeting opportunities 
and travel. We remain committed 
to the professional development 
and upskilling of our employees. Our baseline leadership programs help support current leaders by providing tools and training resources to promote success 
in their roles. For example, we encourage employees to participate in McKinsey Black Leadership programs, which help equip Black employees with the capabilities, mindsets, behaviors and network 
to help them achieve their professional aspirations. Our early career professional development program enables post-undergraduate employees to participate in an intensive, three-year rotational or nonrotational program to build technical expertise at Williams. The program consistently achieves strong representation across diversity dimensions, helping build a robust pipeline of future talent. Over the last five years, on average 27% of our early career program hires were ethnic minorities and 40% were female. Our early career program is one avenue to help us fill the gap by bringing in new diverse talent. We also offer a Safety Leadership training program for executive leadership and directors as well 
as operations managers and supervisors. The program brings 
the Williams safety vision to life by demonstrating the importance of leading by example and modeling safety behaviors and practices. 
For executive leadership and directors, this interactive and personalized course provides an opportunity to gain the knowledge and skills necessary to create and effectively deliver a safety leadership message and incorporate meaningful safety conversations in all daily tasks. For operations managers and supervisors, the course effectively engages and influences employees and contractors in difficult safety conversations and creates an environment that enables employees and contractors to advance the safety culture. For more information on safety at Williams, see page 56. Succession PlanningWilliams engages in talent review and succession planning to assess our organizational capability and guarantee ongoing talent capacity. Our Talking Talent program enables us to evaluate talent across the company and calibrate accordingly. Additionally, our Talking Development program provides the opportunity for managers to think strategically about the broader spectrum of development needs 
and identify themes. Aligning these themes to the strategic priorities of the organization helps ensure that succession and development plans support the growth of individuals 
and the business. As part of our succession analysis, we also review the demographics of our potential successor pool. We utilize career transition services to support transitioning individuals through 
a combination of career coaching, networking, industry-specific job leads, reskilling and upskilling.2020 Employee TrainingEmployee Category 2018 2019 2020 Corporate and technical training hours completed by employees 172,000 175,000 174,000 Corporate and technical training hours completed per employee 32 37 37 WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTBusiness Development & Training ProgramsWe launched a variety of new development initiatives in 2020, including 
a focused program for project management teams. This program includes 
a project management boot camp, in which 20 employees were selected 
to participate.We also developed and deployed a new commercial development program specifically created for Williams Commercial and Business Development employees by McKenzie Pitch Partners. During the second half of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021, 56 select senior-level employees and mid-level managers completed the course focused on key business development skills and deal progression techniques to advance a strong customer focus commercial culture at Williams. Due to the success of the program, we will continue to expand eligibility to additional employees in 2021. Through such programming, employees will develop a common understanding of the business development and sales process, as well as improve their commercial acumen.We also launched an operations technician development program, which helps employees understand baseline standards and prepare for future business needs through additional skills training. In 2020, 542 operations technicians completed Phase 1 of the training program.Senior Administrative Assistant Sandra T. and Supply Chain Supervisor Roderick G. in Houston, Texas.Employee BenefitsWilliams provides a comprehensive total rewards program that includes base salary, an all-employee annual incentive program, retirement benefits and a health and wellness program. In 2020, a third party assessed our benefits package 
to make sure plans and programs 
were meeting the needs of our diverse workforce. Our benefits program exceeds the benchmarks for both our industry segment and the energy industry as a whole. Williams provides employees 
with company-paid life insurance, disability coverage and paid parental leave for both birth and non-birth parents. In 2020, we increased 
paid parental leave to six weeks. Additionally, more than 95% of Williams’ employees are saving 
for retirement through our 401(k) plan. Whether or not they utilize 
the Williams 401(k) plan, all 
employees receive company-paid retirement benefits.We recognize and reward our employees who play a critical 
role in our company’s success. Williams’ discretionary Annual Incentive Program (AIP) offers incentives based on company-wide performance, individual performance and select environmental and 
safety metrics to drive business results, enhance collaboration 
and motivate employees.Williams has expanded the focus from just safety and financial metrics to include environmental goals 
and, in 2021, Williams will target 
a 10% reduction in loss of primary containment events from our 2020 performance. We also added an environmental, health and safety training completion metric to the front-line quarterly bonus. These goals emphasize our focus on reducing environmental and 
safety risk.By having a stake in the success 
of the company, employees will find more opportunities to make Williams stronger. We therefore provide an employee stock purchase plan to purchase company stock at a 15% discount. In 2020, 41% of eligible employees elected to participate 
in the program.Union LaborGRI 102-41Organized labor serves as an important voice advocating for the necessary expansion of domestic energy infrastructure. We have strong relationships with unions in many of our pipeline areas. Williams recognizes the right of employees under the National Labor Relations Act to, among other things, organize, form, join or assist unions and to engage in protected, concerted activities. Williams is dedicated to creating a workplace that respects and values all employees and maintains an environment of 
open and direct communication.We develop mutually rewarding relationships with our employees through fairness, trust and integrity. Because we encourage a direct partnership with our employees, 
we do not believe in the need for 
an outside group to speak on their behalf. In 2020, none of Williams’ employees were represented under collective bargaining agreements.Williams has a longstanding practice of assessing local talent first for all available job positions. For our Leidy South project, more than 70% of the contracts executed in 2020 were with companies that use organized labor.Operations Technician Damon F. at Cotton Belt compressor station in Fort Worth, Texas.Ethics & ComplianceGRI 102-16Williams’ employees and board of directors act with integrity as we deliver the products people rely 
on for electricity, heating and cooking. Our commitment to upholding high standards of 
ethics and compliance is a key 
driver of our ability to operate a sustainable, profitable company.Our Core Values—Authentic, 
Safety-Driven, Reliable Performers and Responsible Stewards—guide how we perform our work every day on behalf of our stakeholders. Living by these values earns the trust of 
our customers, local communities, investors and other stakeholders and contributes to our long-term success. Our Code of Business Conduct sets the ethical conduct expectations for officers, directors and employees at all levels. It also applies to Williams subsidiaries and, in certain cases, our joint ventures. The Code is our primary mechanism to drive compliance with all laws, avoid conflicts of interest, maintain 
a safe and inclusive workforce and report ethical concerns. As outlined in the Code, we strictly prohibit any act of corruption, including bribery, the making of facilitation payments, fraud, extortion, conflicts of interest and the giving or receiving of 
gifts designed to influence the recipient’s judgment.All employees must annually complete Code of Business 
Conduct training. As part of 
this computer-based training, employees must acknowledge that they have read and understand the Code’s expectations. In addition, senior leadership must complete 
an 11-question certification to confirm their understanding of 
Code expectations. New employees 
must complete the training within 
the first 30 days of employment. 
In 2020, 100% of our employees completed compliance and ethics training courses.The Williams Ethics and Compliance program communicates and manages key elements of ethics 
and integrity, including through our Core Values, Code and guidelines for reporting suspected violations. Williams’ chief ethics and compliance officer has oversight responsibility 
for our Ethics and Compliance program, and high-level personnel are responsible for the effectiveness of this program. The Williams Ethics Advisory panel assesses the effectiveness of the Ethics and Compliance program 
and recommends enhancements 
as necessary. We incorporate benchmark comparative metrics in our annual assessment as part of the evaluation process. In coordination with the Ethics Advisory panel, internal subject matter experts and internal audit team, we also conduct an annual risk assessment to review compliance with our ethics policies.We strictly prohibit any act of corruption, including bribery, the making of facilitation payments, fraud, extortion, conflicts of interest and the giving or receiving of gifts that are designed to influence the recipient’s judgment. The Williams board of directors audit committee has established procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters. Williams was 
not involved in any pending 
or completed legal actions, 
fines or settlements in 2020 regarding bribery, corruption 
or anti-competitive violations.Certain Williams customers, including Chesapeake Energy Corporation (Chesapeake), have been named in various lawsuits alleging underpayment of royalties and claiming, among other things, violations of anti-trust laws and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. We have also been named as a defendant in certain cases filed in Pennsylvania based on allegations that we improperly participated with Chesapeake in causing the 
alleged royalty underpayments.We believe that the claims asserted are subject to indemnity obligations owed to us by Chesapeake. Chesapeake has reached a settlement to resolve substantially 
all pending Pennsylvania royalty cases, in which settlement applies 
to both Chesapeake and us. The settlement does not require any contribution from Williams and is awaiting court approval. Reporting Concerns GRI 102-17We encourage our employees to report suspected violations of any law, regulation or company policy. 
It is against our policy for employees to engage in or tolerate retaliation 
or any form of harassment directed against an employee who reports 
a suspected problem in good faith. Williams offers several confidential mechanisms for reporting, including the Williams Business Ethics Resource Center, the Williams 
Action Line and our online ethics reporting site. Employees can access the Action Line 24 hours 
a day, seven days a week. 
An independent third party 
operates the Action Line to ensure confidentiality. We proactively communicate these resources through the Williams Ethics and Compliance program and on our internal and external websites.Williams evaluates all alleged violations of law or company policies to assess the need for and level of investigation. Williams determines the appropriate next steps and, where warranted, takes appropriate corrective action, up to and including dismissal. In 2020, we received 186 concerns through ethics reporting channels. Additionally, the Williams board of directors receives quarterly updates regarding the Ethics and Compliance program.AuthenticOur integrity cannot be compromised; for more than a century we’ve remained true to ourselves, striving to do the right thing, every time.Safety DrivenSafeguarding our 
people and neighbors 
is ingrained in our 
culture and fundamental 
to everything we do.Reliable PerformersWe stand behind our reputation as a dependable and trustworthy business that delivers on our promises.Responsible StewardsWe are dedicated to strengthening our people and communities and to protecting the environment.WILLIAMS WAY SPOTLIGHTEthics & Compliance ProgramIn 2020, we evaluated our Ethics and Compliance program against updated Department of Justice (DOJ) guidance. Though much of the enhanced federal guidance was already contained in our program, our 2020 policy governance initiative further supports the availability and clarity of guidance regarding corporate policies. This policy governance initiative established 
a common and consistent process for the drafting, review, updating, 
approval and communication of enterprise-level policies. We created an enterprise-level management policy to provide clear guidance regarding 
the process structure and design. We also contracted with the Business Ethics Resource Center (BERC) as a key gatekeeper to ensure consistent handling of enterprise-level policies. BERC’s role is to help guide stakeholders through the established annual review process and assist in facilitation of an enterprise communication plan regarding new and updated polices. New policy recommendations are worked through the BERC Office and presented to the Williams Ethics Advisory panel for approval. Annually, and when guidance such as the recent 2020 DOJ updated guidance becomes available, the BERC Office and the chief Ethics and Compliance officer conduct an internal review of the Williams Ethics and Compliance program to review current methods used to promote, monitor 
and enforce compliance with our policies and standards. We communicate the results of this review in an annual report to the Williams governance 
and sustainability committee. Additionally, we compare the company’s noncompliance data against the published NAVEX Global hotline benchmarking report. The BERC Office also meets annually with Ernst 
and Young to discuss the effectiveness of our program.Commercial Contract Analyst Robin V. and Market Intelligence Analyst Stephanie A. in Houston, Texas.Ethics and Compliance Governance StructureBoard of DirectorsAudit 
CommitteeGovernance and 
Sustainability CommitteeEthics Advisory PanelMade up of high-level 
representatives from across the enterprise. Meets regularly to 
oversee the effectiveness of the 
Ethics and Compliance program.Chief Ethics and Compliance OfficerResponsible for adopting, implementing and maintaining the Ethics and Compliance program for Williams.Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission Compliance OfficerBusiness Ethics 
Resource Center2020 Number of Inquiries Received Through Ethics Reporting Channels
74 management
55 human resources
38 other reporting channels
15 Action Line
4 business ethics resources center