Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments Managing community engagement Understanding and addressing the interests of communities where we operate is critical to maintaining a sustainable business. ExxonMobil’s multifaceted approach to engaging with communities helps us create and sustain productive relationships with the communities near our areas of operation. We work in communities all over the world, each with their own unique cultures, needs and sensitivities. In all cases, we maintain our corporate-wide commitment to responsibly managing our social and environmental impacts, upholding respect for human rights and making social investments by tailoring our engagement efforts to individual communities. In this chapter, we focus on three key socioeconomic elements: human rights, community relations and strategic investments. Up Close: Social outreach to support local fishermen in Indonesia and Malaysia ExxonMobil’s offshore platforms and related facilities in Indonesia and Malaysia are located near areas frequently visited by local fishermen. Social outreach efforts in both countries reduce the potential risks of fishing near oil and gas operations. For example, in 2016, ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Malaysia Inc. joined the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency to engage local members of a village in Terengganu, Malaysia, where fishermen represent around 40 percent of the population. The initiative, known as Sahabat Maritim or Maritime Mate, consisted of a two-day outreach program designed to increase safety awareness and strengthen relationships with members of the local community. Community engagement activities included a “gotong-royong” — or voluntary community clean-up — to refurbish the local jetty where fishermen can dock or moor their boats. ExxonMobil volunteers also distributed educational brochures that illustrate the 500-meter restricted zone around platforms, conducted a series of talks and exhibitions on safely fishing near offshore operations and provided attendees with life jackets. In response to Sahabat Maritim and other such education initiatives, the number of fishing vessel encroachments at our platforms in the region has been reduced by almost 60 percent in the last three years. “This Sahabat Maritim program achieves our Operations Integrity Management System objective of building community awareness among our key stakeholders and managing risk to ensure operations integrity.” Sukiman Mohamed Public and government affairs manager, ExxonMobil Malaysia Respecting human rights Our approach to human rights is consistent with the goals of the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. These principles outline governments’ duty to protect human rights and businesses’ responsibility to respect them. ExxonMobil works closely with governments, civil society and industry to help advance the goals of the UN Guiding Principles. ExxonMobil operates in regions where engagement with host governments is undertaken to support security and respect for human rights in local operations. The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights are a set of principles designed to guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of their operations within an operating framework that encourages respect for human rights. Participants include representatives from governments, civil society and the extractives industry. We have been a member of the Voluntary Principles since 2002, and have served on multiple occasions as one of the corporate representatives on its steering committee. In 2016, we supported the Voluntary Principles through the facilitation of pilot groups in Nigeria, Ghana and Myanmar, which were designed to enhance local collaboration on human rights among governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), companies and other stakeholders. ExxonMobil is actively participating in the Nigeria pilot group. Our Statement and Framework on Security and Human Rights states our commitment to conduct business in a way that protects the security of our personnel, facilities and operations. It also affirms our commitment to respect human rights. The Framework provides guidance to all of our employees on working with both host governments and private security personnel in a manner that respects human rights. We also have agreements with private security firms with which we work that contain requirements to uphold human rights. These agreements include expectations for training and compliance with relevant local, UN and other security-related frameworks. We expect our employees, officers and directors to comply with all applicable laws and regulations and seek to work with suppliers and business partners who share our commitment to human rights. Within our own workforce, our commitment to human rights is supported by our Standards of Business Conduct and our Statement on Labor and the Workplace. Our Statement reinforces support for the principles of the International Labor Organization 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, notably the elimination of child labor, forced labor and workplace discrimination. ExxonMobil has conducted human rights training for our employees in select regions for many years. We believe providing human rights training helps build an understanding and awareness of potential impacts. In 2015, we launched a new computer-based human rights training module to further enhance internal awareness of human rights. To date, more than 1,200 of our key employees in 46 countries have completed the training. Statement on Labor and the Workplace Standards of Business Conduct ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights, and we expect the same of our suppliers. In 2016, we published our ExxonMobil Supplier Expectations, a set of guidelines that outlines our expectations of contractors and suppliers inclusive of human rights. These Expectations include references to key international human rights frameworks such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Starting in 2017, the Supplier Expectations will become part of ExxonMobil’s annual letter to our suppliers. Internally, we delivered human rights awareness training tailored to procurement professionals in the supply chain. Through early 2017, we have trained approximately 100 ExxonMobil procurement professionals, and will continue training through the rest of 2017. ExxonMobil works closely with IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, to monitor human rights trends in supply chains that are relevant to the oil and gas industry. We also work with IPIECA to collect information on best practices in human rights supply chain management from the oil and gas industry as well as other industries. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s approach to supply chain management, see page 39. Community relations We actively engage with stakeholders in local communities and include their feedback in our decision-making processes to identify any issues or concerns early on in a project. We provide local groups and individuals with communication channels — including open houses, community meetings and individual meetings — to voice concerns so interested stakeholders and community members have the opportunity to be heard. We invite interested stakeholders and community members so they are fairly represented in our public consultation activities. We are informed by guidance from the International Finance Corporation and IPIECA, which provides for systematic and transparent grievance management processes to address concerns related to projects. Our community-tailored grievance management processes are clearly communicated through our ongoing community engagement, and allow us to track, analyze and respond to community grievances in a timely and effective manner. In 2016, we received and responded to 31 grievances concerning our liquefied natural gas project in Papua New Guinea, which has been operating for two years. At our Sakhalin-1 facilities, where we have been operating for more than 10 years, we received and responded to five grievances in 2016. By working collaboratively and transparently with local communities, we can help avoid or reduce our impacts on communities, enhance benefits, avert delays, reduce costs and prevent the escalation of issues. Indigenous peoples Our operations sometimes take place in areas inhabited or historically used by indigenous peoples. In these locations, we start by identifying indigenous populations and then engage with them in open and inclusive consultation, including the consideration of their traditions and cultures. In 2016, our Sakhalin-1 project in Russia received a national corporate citizenship award at an annual meeting of indigenous peoples for our efforts to develop a tripartite agreement with local government officials and indigenous peoples to restore the local reindeer population. ExxonMobil employs practices and policies to respect property rights in the locations where we operate, and we pay particular attention to those areas populated by indigenous peoples. ExxonMobil was not involved in the resettlement of any individuals from indigenous populations in 2016. For more details on working with indigenous communities as well as information on ExxonMobil’s approach to managing land use, resettlement and cultural heritage, please see our community relations webpage. Community relations Up Close: Supporting indigenous communities in Alaska With ExxonMobil’s support, the University of Alaska at Fairbanks is creating the Northern Alaska Indigenous Leadership Academy (NAILA), which will help Alaska Natives develop the skills to implement sustainable community development initiatives and fulfill leadership roles in their communities. This new program includes a one-week on-campus training course designed to strengthen wellness, leadership and community sustainability among indigenous peoples living in the Interior and North Slope of Alaska, where our Point Thomson facilities are located. ExxonMobil’s contribution will provide scholarships covering travel, tuition and fees for 25 NAILA program participants. “Without the generosity of ExxonMobil, NAILA wouldn’t be possible. Their gift underscores our shared commitment to developing a new generation of Alaska Native leaders and building sustainable rural communities.” Evon Peter Vice chancellor of rural, community and native education for the University of Alaska, Fairbanks Strategic community investments In addition to addressing community priorities where we do business, we partner with governments and nongovernmental organizations to help enhance the quality of life in the communities where we operate around the world. Whether through the ExxonMobil Foundation, our corporation or our international affiliated company operations, we strategically invest in social programs that consider community needs and Up Close: host country economic and social goals. In 2016, we contributed $242 million to communities around the world. We focus our efforts on our signature initiatives: improving education, combating malaria and advancing economic opportunities for women. We concentrate on these three areas because research shows they help build a foundation for economic prosperity and human progress. Education initiative Education is a fundamental building block for individual opportunity and economic growth. Science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) skills, in particular, are critical to ensuring today’s students are prepared for the jobs of the 21st century. Additionally, we hire highly skilled scientists and engineers to perform a variety of jobs in our company. For these reasons, we invest in education and teacher development programs designed to encourage students to pursue careers in the STEM fields. Since 2000, we have contributed nearly $1.2 billion to education programs around the world, with $72 million invested in 2016 alone. Helping prepare students for careers of the 21st century Founded in 2007, the National Math and Science Initiative (NMSI) is a U.S.-based nonprofit organization that works to expand access to challenging coursework, improve student achievement and boost teacher effectiveness, particularly in the fields of STEM. NMSI’s College Readiness Program enables schools to improve participation in rigorous Advanced Placement® (AP®) coursework to better prepare students for college and the STEM-intensive careers of the 21st century. To date, the program has been implemented in more than 1,000 schools across 34 states. After one year, schools participating in NMSI’s College Readiness Program have increased the number of qualifying AP® exam scores in math, science and English by 10 times the national average, while demonstrating significant gains among female, African-American and Hispanic students, who are traditionally underrepresented in STEM fields. In 2015, with financial assistance from ExxonMobil, NMSI began expanding its College Readiness Program in Louisiana, North Dakota and Pennsylvania. ExxonMobil’s partnership with NMSI will help provide schools in these states with extensive training for teachers and resources for students to support AP®coursework. In Pennsylvania alone, seven new schools joined the program for the 2015 to 2016 school year. After one year, these schools experienced a combined 51 percent increase in qualifying math, science and English AP® exam scores. “The College Readiness Program is raising the academic bar in Pennsylvania and across the nation. We’re grateful that companies like ExxonMobil realize the value of STEM education and are committed to ensuring that our future workforce is better equipped with the knowledge and skills they need to be successful.” Gregg Fleisher President of the National Math and Science Initiative Education initiative: program spotlight National Math and Science Initiative 1,000+ $185M schools in 34 states committed by ExxonMobil since 2007 114% U.S. NMSI average average Math, Science, English three-year increase in qualifying AP® scores for NMSI schools Up Close: ExxonMobil’s long-standing commitment to antimalarial efforts Each year, malaria claims the lives of more than 400,000 people around the world. Thankfully, significant progress has been made in the global fight against this disease, and the number of malaria-related deaths and infections continues to decline. To continue this progress, an integrated approach is needed, including strengthened health care systems, improved prevention techniques, expanded research capabilities and increased access to proper diagnosis and treatment. Since 2000, we have supported research and development into new front-line therapies, the search for a vaccine and improved diagnostics. We support leading product development partnerships like Medicines for Malaria Venture in its program designed to advance new drugs in the fight against P. vivax malaria, the strain most commonly found in Asia. Because there is still no approved vaccine for malaria in wide usage, we have also worked with the Malaria Vaccine Initiative at PATH since 2005 to support informed policy decision-making as the development of malaria vaccines is accelerated. As a result of these and other such global efforts, the World Health Organization’s annual World Malaria Report found that malaria mortality rates decreased by 29 percent around the world between 2010 and 2015. Additionally, steady declines in mortality and incidence rates have averted about 1.3 billion malaria cases and saved about 6.8 million lives since 2001. Malaria initiative We support the health of our employees, their families and members of the communities where we operate, which is why we invest in health programs aimed at combating preventable and treatable illnesses. In 2016, ExxonMobil contributed nearly $10 million to support a variety of malaria research, educational and treatment programs. Since 2001, the antimalarial programs we have funded have reached more than 125 million people, and our support has resulted in the distribution of approximately 14.3 million bed nets, 4.3 million doses of antimalarial treatments and nearly 3 million rapid diagnostic kits, as well as the training of more than 589,000 health workers. Our cash grants during the past 15 years total $155 million, making us one of the largest private-sector grant-makers in the fight against malaria. However, the significant progress in reducing malaria deaths since 2000 could be reversed by a number of looming challenges. One of the most alarming is the threat of resistance to front-line antimalarial drugs emerging in Southeast Asia and its potential spread into Africa. Accordingly, we support Dr. Dyann Wirth’s laboratory at Harvard University to investigate new compounds that could overcome this drug resistance — as well as the Worldwide Antimalarial Resistance Network — which provides comprehensive, timely, quality-assured evidence to track the emergence and spread of antimalarial drug resistance. “We’re at a very special time in malaria research. If we continue to inspire health leaders, reduce knowledge gaps and translate findings into practice, we can end malaria in our lifetime.” Dr. Dyann Wirth Director of the Harvard Malaria Initiative The World Health Organization’s World Malaria Report Women’s economic opportunity initiative Empowering women economically is a key element to enhancing local and national development. Investing in women helps support broad economic transformation in developing regions and contributes to a more equitable society. In the developing countries where women are more fully participatory in their national economies, we find lower infant mortality, improved health and nutrition, increased educational opportunities, enhanced economic growth and food security, and lower rates of poverty. Since 2005, ExxonMobil has invested — through our women’s economic opportunity initiative — approximately $104 million in programs that support research to identify the most effective Several tools, such as raising awareness, using long-lasting, insecticide-treated bed nets, indoor residual spraying, and rapid diagnostics and treatments, have been key in reducing the number of malaria cases and deaths. Photo credit: Ben Moldenhauer, Medicines for Malaria Venture ways to improve women’s economic status; develop women farmers, entrepreneurs and business leaders; and improve women’s access to technology. Our support has reached tens of thousands of women in more than 90 countries. In 2016 alone, our contributions totaled $10 million. ExxonMobil Foundation Up Close: Expanding economic opportunities for women farmers in Mozambique In Mozambique, women face pervasive obstacles to achieving economic empowerment. To help overcome  those barriers, in 2016, the ExxonMobil Foundation partnered with Opportunity International to launch the Projecto para Empoderamento das Mulheres e Desenvolvimento da Agricultura (PEMA) program to expand economic opportunities for women farmers in Mozambique. The initiative includes both theoretical and practical application of strategies for helping women more effectively benefit from commercial agricultural markets in Mozambique. Since the program launched in January 2016, PEMA has provided support to more than 400 farmers and gained valuable insight into the delivery of agricultural inputs, services and finance to women farmers. In 2017, we aim to significantly increase the number of program participants through innovations in agricultural finance, comprehensive agricultural support services and technology to improve the productivity, income, financial inclusion and overall empowerment of women farmers in Mozambique. Women in Mozambique participate in the PEMA program to learn about commercial agriculture. 2016 community investments by focus area1 and geographic region2 Arts and culture $3 Employee and retiree giving $38 Worldwide total Women $242$10 Public policy Million research $7 Precollege education $24 $6 United appeals and workplace giving Higher education $44 Civic and community $84 Other education $4 Health $18 Environment $4 $131M $58M $30M $13M $8M $2M United States Europe/Caspian Africa/Middle East Asia Pacific Canada Latin America ExxonMobil seeks to make meaningful community investments in a variety of focus areas. In 2016, total community investments were $242 million, with the greatest investment in civic and community initiatives. 1 Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. Investments do not include environmental capital and operating expenditures, which totaled approximately $4.9 billion in 2016. Local community investments In addition to our education, malaria and women’s economic initiatives, we provide local investments tailored to address community-specific needs such as access to skills training and health care and support for disaster relief, including our $500,000 contribution to the American Red Cross and the Greater Baton Rouge Food Bank to support local flooding disaster relief in 2016. For additional information on our local community investments, see page 39. Employee participation Volunteering and charitable giving are important values for ExxonMobil. In total, more than 19,000 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and their families donated more than 550,000 volunteer ExxonMobil’s community investments span across the many geographic regions in which we operate. In 2016, we invested a total of $242 million in communities around the world. 2 Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. hours to nearly 4,500 charitable organizations in 29 countries in 2016. Our educational matching gift program matches employee and retiree donations to U.S. higher education institutions at a ratio of 3-to-1. In 2015, nearly 4,600 employees and retirees donated more than $13 million to 864 colleges and universities, as well as minority scholarship programs — which, in 2016, the ExxonMobil Foundation matched with more than $32 million. For information on how ExxonMobil’s volunteer involvement program helps facilitate employee participation, visit our employee participation webpage. Employee participation ExxonMobil 2016 Worldwide Giving Report exxonmobil.com/citizenship Case Study ExxonMobil’s Growing the Gulf investment program Over the past decade, technology pioneered by the energy industry has unlocked vast oil and natural gas resources that were previously difficult to produce. In particular, the production of natural gas in U.S. shale basins, including those found in Gulf Coast states such as Texas, has grown significantly in recent years. These opportunities have spurred local and regional economic activities in the United States. In addition to helping grow the economy, increased natural gas production also generates environmental benefits. Natural gas is the least carbon-intensive of the major energy sources, emitting up to 60 percent fewer carbon dioxide emissions than coal when used for electricity generation. We operate three refineries located along the U.S. Gulf Coast in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Baytown, Texas; and Beaumont, Texas. These and other facilities will support ExxonMobil’s expanded refining, chemical, lubricant and liquefied natural gas operations. Our Gulf Coast refineries have the combined capacity to process nearly 1.5 million barrels of crude oil per day to produce a range of products, including gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, lubricating oils, adhesives and resilient, lightweight plastics used in a variety of applications. ExxonMobil plans to invest more than $20 billion over 10 years, beginning in 2013, in our refining, chemical and joint venture businesses along the Gulf Coast as part of our Growing the Gulf investment program. ExxonMobil’s U.S. Gulf expansion includes 11 major chemical, refining, lubricants and liquefied natural gas projects along the Texas and Louisiana coasts. This includes the expansion of existing facilities and construction of new facilities that will increase our refining and chemical capacity. These projects are expected to create more than 45,000 jobs in the region. Many of these are highly skilled, high-paying jobs averaging about $100,000 per year. We are partnering with local, state and national leaders to positively contribute to the Gulf Coast communities. The company also partners with colleges in the Baytown, Beaumont and Baton Rouge areas to train students for high-skilled jobs in the Gulf Coast manufacturing sector. ExxonMobil also works to maintain strong relationships with Gulf Coast communities through strategic investments and employee-driven initiatives. In Baton Rouge alone, employees, retirees and family members annually volunteer more than 40,000 hours with community organizations, earning more than $760,000 in ExxonMobil Volunteer Involvement Program grants for local agencies and groups. ExxonMobil also annually donates nearly $1 million to nonprofits and schools and about $1.5 million to colleges and universities in Louisiana. As we help drive economic progress and support local communities in the Gulf Coast, we remain committed to operating safely, protecting the environment, maintaining the highest levels of operational integrity and remaining a good corporate citizen. exxonmobil.com/citizenship 