IntroductionStrategic priorities and organizationExxonMobil is one of the world’s largest publicly traded energy and chemical companies. We develop and apply next-generation technologies to help safely and responsibly meet the world’s growing needs for reliable and affordable energy and high-quality products.Creating sustainable solutions that improve quality of life and meet society’s evolving needsLeading performanceEssential partnerAdvantaged portfolioInnovative solutionsMeaningful developmentAt ExxonMobil, we are committed to improving quality of life by meeting the critical needs of society. That is what we have done throughout our history—as the world evolves, so do we. We are constantly working to meet the changing needs of our customers and stakeholders. This ability to adapt has been the key to creating long-term shareholder value and will be critical to continued success in the years to come.As we move forward, we will remain focused on five strategic priorities. First, leading industry across the metrics that are the foundation of success—safety, reliability, environmental performance, earnings and cash flow growth and ultimately shareholder returns. Second, being a valued, essential partner through the creation of win-win solutions for our customers, partners and broader stakeholders. Third, building on our advantaged portfolio, continuously upgrading it to ensure it leads competition and delivers value across a range of external environments and through volatile and evolving markets. To do this, we must continue to innovate. We are providing solutions that meet the growing needs of society reliably and affordably. This means new products, technologies and approaches that better meet the needs of today and tomorrow. These solutions need to be deployed at scale to create meaningful impact. This requires that we fully leverage all of our competitive advantages the most important of which, is of course, our people. Continually developing our people and maintaining a strong culture is a core strategic priority and essential to achieving our long-term objectives. We remain focused on building a diverse workforce and productive work environment where individual and cultural differences are respected, where every individual is challenged to deliver their best and has the opportunity for unrivaled personal and professional development. To deliver on these priorities, and fully leverage our competitive advantages we continue to evolve our business model and change the way we work and are organized. We are organized along three business lines—ExxonMobil Upstream Company, ExxonMobil Product Solutions and ExxonMobil Low Carbon Solutions. These business lines are supported by a single technology organization, ExxonMobil Technology and Engineering, and other centralized service-delivery groups including Global Operations and Sustainability. More information on our business divisions and operations can be found on our Business Divisions page.Web link.Business divisions “We strive for a diverse workforce and productive work environment where individual and cultural differences are respected and valued. We challenge our people to contribute fully, demonstrate courage of conviction and adhere to the highest standards of excellence and integrity. We embrace learning, flexibility and innovation to meet society’s evolving needs and outperform competition. We take pride in being part of ExxonMobil, where we work hard, have fun and live our values.”Darren W. Woods, Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerAn ExxonMobil employee looks at a tablet computer in front of an operating facility.Highlighting 2021 performanceCorporate governance42% board diversity at year-end5 new independent directors.Engaged with shareholders owning 1.7 billion shares, representing 41% of total outstanding shares Environment~24% reduction in total reportable emissions of VOC, SOX and NOX from 2016 to 2021**.Refers only to operated assets..36% reduction in controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water from 2016 to 2021*****.Refers only to operated assets.Zero reportable plastic pellet losses from 
resin-handling facilities for 4 consecutive years.Community and human rights$163 million in social contributions to communities around the world.50 years of focus on supplier diversity.$28 million contributed to education and workforce development programs globallySafety31% decrease in Tier 1 safety events from 2016 to 2021*Best-ever Lost Time Incident Rate of 0.02 per 200,000 work hours .16 peer-reviewed scientific papers published related to Product Safety.Workplace#1 most attractive U.S. energy company for engineering students by Universum Annual Awards.[1]47% increase in women and minority executives from 2016 to 2021 40% of global hires were women, 47% of U.S. hires were U.S. minorities.Table refers to 2021, unless otherwise noted.ExxonMobil's Houston campus.Integrating sustainability into what we doOur approachIn 2002, our first sustainability report summarized energy research, environmental stewardship, safety and health performance, community engagement and workforce development and diversity. As the world has evolved, so has ExxonMobil. We have continued to expand our portfolio to help meet energy demand while addressing potential impacts to the environment and society. We have improved our sustainability disclosures to increase transparency and strengthen relationships with stakeholders. In this report, we highlight our Sustainability Focus Areas and how we aim to help protect the environment and meet the needs of modern society. Our talented and dedicated workforce forms the cornerstone of our approach to sustainability: Protect Tomorrow. Today. Our focus areasOur approach to sustainability   Leadership   Application   Performance   Zoomed out view of ExxonMobil's Houston campus, showing a large lawn, pool, and building.Our approach to sustainability ExxonMobil works to create sustainable solutions that improve quality of life and meet society’s evolving needs. We intend to do this in ways that help protect people, the environment and the communities where we operate. Our advantaged portfolio of assets and products, coupled with our competitive advantages, provides flexibility for continued success across a broad range of potential scenarios. Our focus on innovation and technology, combined with supportive government policies, can further accelerate large-scale deployment of solutions essential to enabling modern life and lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We plan to play a leading role in the energy transition, and we strive to accomplish this by applying the company’s top strengths, which include scale, integration, technology, functional excellence and people. Building on a strong history of leadership, we are focused on achieving our aims, including our sustainability goals. This approach helps build resiliency into our business and operations.Sustainability approachA circular infographic showing ExxonMobil's Sustainability approach. It begings with Leadership, leading into Application, leading into Performance, which leads back into Leadership, and so on. The three approaches are described below. Leadership Our governance and business ethics underpin our actions and behaviors. This internal leadership drives our policies, systems, expectations and standards.ApplicationStrategies, capital, innovation and stakeholder engagement enable us to focus our resources and develop plans in the areas of greatest potential impact to ExxonMobil and society.PerformanceExecution of plans, processes and stewardship of progress support delivery in areas of focus and drive continuous improvement.View of a city skyline at night, lights reflect off of glass buildings.Internal view of ExxonMobil's Houston campus, showing employees walking through glass hallways.LeadershipExxonMobil is committed to being a leading energy and chemical company, achieving strong financial and operating results and adhering to the highest ethical standards. We are dedicated to running safe and environmentally responsible operations. Corporate governance Good corporate governance creates a business environment conducive to long-term growth. Our efforts are overseen by our Board of Directors, which provides guidance to company management. Ethics and integrity We strive to always uphold high ethical standards in all aspects of our business. Our Standards of Business Conduct set the ethical conduct expectations for ExxonMobil and its wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries. Employees are reminded of these Standards of Business Conduct annually. Business practices training is required for employees every four years. ExxonMobil requires all employees, officers, directors and those working on our behalf to comply with all applicable laws. ExxonMobil encourages employees and contractors to ask questions and voice concerns, and we insist on the reporting of any alleged violations of company policies. In addition to our open-door communication procedures, we have several confidential mechanisms for reporting. Employees can submit concerns anonymously through a 24-hour hotline or a mailing address. We respect confidentiality, subject to legal requirements, and have protections in place to prevent retaliation against any employee for submitting concerns. A hotline steering committee reviews reports of suspected violations. The Board Audit Committee, comprised of four independent, non-employee directors, oversees accounting and internal control matters for the company, including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The Audit Committee receives a quarterly report summarizing the hotline steering committee’s findings, including any policy violations. Confirmed violations lead to disciplinary actions, up to and including termination. For more information on the Board Audit Committee, please see the company’s annual proxy statement on our Investor Relations webpage.PDF link.Standards of Business ConductPDF link.Proxy StatementPerformance and initiatives ExxonMobil conducts regular internal audits and self-assessments to verify the effectiveness of our control systems and adherence to our Standards of Business Conduct. Our team of internal auditors annually reviews approximately one-third of ExxonMobil’s activities and processes on a rolling basis. Internal auditors have access to all operations, records, personnel and properties. We thoroughly investigate suspected acts of noncompliance. Employees in relevant job functions receive online and in-person training on antitrust, anti-corruption, anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls soon after entering their positions, as well as every year thereafter. In 2021, more than 17,000 employees and contractors participated in such training.ExxonMobil Papau New Guinea Liquified Natural Gas worker on the job, with a tablet computer in hand.Headshot of board member Darren Woods.Headshot of board member Michael Angelakis.Headshot of board member Susan Avery.Headshot of board member Angela Braly.Headshot of board member Ursula Burns.Headshot of board member Gregory Goff.Headshot of board member Kaisa Hietala.Headshot of board member Joseph Hooley.Headshot of board member Steven Kandarian.Headshot of board member Alexander Karsner.Headshot of board member Jeffrey Ubben.Our Board of Directors ExxonMobil’s Board of Directors oversees the corporation’s management, including its risk management. It also reviews long-term strategic plans, selects and reviews the performance of the chief executive officer (CEO), reviews development and succession plans for top executives, as well as a number of other functions. The Board is comprised of independent directors and the CEO. All members of the Audit; Nominating and Governance; Compensation; and Environment, Safety and Public Policy committees are independent. Individual directors leverage their experience and knowledge in Board and committee deliberations and Board decisions reflect the collective wisdom of the group.The Board added five new independent directors in 2021. These new directors add to the Board’s existing skillsets and expertise by providing additional experience in energy, business transition and capital allocation. Each new director participated in comprehensive onboarding sessions; these sessions included the company’s history, culture, practices, risk framework, legal and regulatory requirements and ethics as well as other policies. Additional information regarding director qualifications can be found on page 18 of ExxonMobil’s 2022 Proxy Statement.An independent lead director is selected by and from the independent directors. The lead director is expected to serve for a minimum of two years. To enhance Board governance, ExxonMobil’s independent lead director’s board authorities were enhanced in 2020 and include leading the annual performance evaluation of the Board and its committees. The lead director also chairs the Nominating and Governance Committee, with authorities that include establishing the criteria for director engagement with shareholders, overseeing independent director succession planning and establishing and maintaining procedures for interested parties to communicate with non-employee directors. Additionally, the lead director works together with the Compensation Committee to oversee the annual evaluation of the CEO, the communication of resulting feedback to the CEO and the review of CEO succession plans. The Board believes shareholder interests are best served through a leadership model combining the roles of Chairman of the Board and chief executive officer. At year-end 2021, 11 of ExxonMobil’s 12 directors were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange guidelines. In 2021, the Board met 13 times. This is a greater frequency of meetings than other Standard & Poor’s 500 company boards, which met on average approximately 9 times in 2021 and approximately 8 times in 2020 per the 2021 Spencer Stuart Board Index. ExxonMobil’s incumbent directors, on average, attended approximately 97% of Board and committee meetings in 2021.PDF link.Proxy StatementBoard composition ExxonMobil recognizes that the strength and effectiveness of the Board reflects the diversity of strengths and experience of the individual directors; their commitment and the ability of directors to work effectively as a group in carrying out their responsibilities. The Nominating and Governance Committee leads the Board refreshment process, which incorporates the perspectives of external experts and shareholders. Qualifications sought for director nominees are documented in the Board’s Guidelines for the Selection of Non-Employee Directors.The Board considers director longevity of service and experience to be of great value and it also recognizes the importance of director refreshment. The average tenure of our non-employee directors at year-end 2021 was 3.8 years, which was well below the 2021 average of S&P 500 companies of 7.7 years[2]. The Nominating and Governance Committee looks for highly qualified, non-employee candidates with demonstrated leadership, competency and a commitment to represent the interests of our shareholders. An independent executive search firm helps identify external candidates for consideration. The qualifications the Nominating and Governance Committee considers for director candidates include: .	Prominence in their fields..	A diversity of experiences and backgrounds, including gender and racial/ethnic diversity..	Experience and demonstrated expertise in managing large, relatively complex organizations, such as that of CEOs of a significant company or organization with global responsibilities..	Financial and other risk management expertise..	Experience in government, regulatory or public policy..	Experience on one or more boards of significant public or nonprofit organizations..	Expertise resulting from significant academic, scientific or research activities..	Experience in the energy industry or with cyclical businesses, such as commodities.The Nominating and Governance Committee considers recommendations from shareholders and Board directors to help ensure the selection process is collaborative. At year-end 2021, 42% of the Board’s directors were female and/or racially/ethnically diverse.The Nominating and Governance Committee, chaired by the independent lead director, recommends committee assignments to the full Board. These recommendations consider the tenure, skills and experiences of each director and the collective group.Web link.Guidelines for the Selection of Non-Employee DirectorsThree ExxonMobil board members, from left to right, Michael Angelakis, Ursula Burns, and Joseph Hooley, conversing in a meeting.Sustainability governanceOur sustainability governance framework helps enable the long-term viability of our business, maintains a culture of ethical behavior and supports the sustainable development of the communities where we operate.Board engagement on sustainability topics The Board of Directors provides oversight of key enterprise risks to ExxonMobil’s business. Throughout the year, the Board participates in reviews with management on the company’s business, including identified enterprise risks. As a whole, the Board reviews: .	Long-term strategic plans..	Stewardship of business performance..	Litigation and other legal matters..	Political contributions, budget and policy..	Lobbying costs..	Developments in climate science and policy..	World energy supply and demand to 2050..	Approach to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions in support of a net zero future.The Board engages with both internal and external experts on issues of importance to the company. These reviews cover a range of topics, including climate change, research and development efforts, operating strategies, business and corporate planning, technology, current events, shareholder engagements and company performance. More detailed information is available in the company’s Outlook for Energy, Advancing Climate Solutions report and this Sustainability Report, among other publications.The independent lead director’s responsibilities include engaging with shareholders, as appropriate, including on environment, social and governance (ESG) topics. The Board’s Environment, Safety and Public Policy Committee oversees operational risks associated with safety, security, health and environmental performance including actions taken to address climate-related risks, lobbying activities and expenditures, and community engagement.The Board, including the Environment, Safety and Public Policy Committee, visits an ExxonMobil site regularly. These visits enable directors to observe and provide input on safety, operating practices, environmental performance, technology, products, industry and corporate standards and community engagement. Web link.More information on the ExxonMobil Board of DirectorsThree ExxonMobil board members, from left to right, Kaisa Hietala, Alexander Karsner, and Jeffrey Ubben, conversing in a meeting.Managing sustainabilityThe ExxonMobil Management Committee provides ongoing oversight of sustainability with the business lines and functions, including regular assessments of strategic risks, safeguards and mitigation plans. Each year, the business lines coordinate with ExxonMobil’s Global Operations and Sustainability organization to present sustainability-related goals, plans and progress.The Management Committee consists of four members:.	Darren Woods—Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.	Neil Chapman—Senior Vice President.	Kathryn Mikells—Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.	Jack Williams—Senior Vice PresidentThe Global Operations and Sustainability Vice President collaborates with Corporate Strategic Planning and the business lines to develop sustainability-related goals and supports the integration of those goals into operating plans. Stewardship of sustainability-related activities to the Chairman and Management Committee occurs quarterly. Within Global Operations and Sustainability, the Sustainability Director manages the focus areas and subject matter experts are responsible for identifying opportunities. Web link.More information on the ExxonMobil Management CommitteeExecutive compensationThe decisions that our executives make and the risks that they manage play out over multi-year time horizons. Executives are required to carefully consider current and future risks, such as those related to climate change and to make decisions across a broad range of business investments that generate sustainable shareholder value over the long term.Our executive compensation program design aligns executives’ compensation with the results of their decisions including the returns to our shareholders over the long term. The program is designed to drive long-term accountability, reward outstanding performance and promote retention.Our strategic objectives have been established to drive sustainable value while positioning ExxonMobil for long-term success in a lower-emissions future. These objectives are translated into annual goals through a comprehensive process that incorporates corporate and functional plans. Goals are incorporated in the corporate plan, which is reviewed and approved by the Board and provides the framework for the organization’s commitments.More information on executive compensation can be found in the 2022 Compensation Discussion and Analysis included in the annual proxy statementPDF link.Proxy StatementHeadshot of Management Committee member Darren Woods.Headshot of Management Committee member Kathryn Mikells.Headshot of Management Committee member Jack Williams.Headshot of Management Committee member Neil Chapman.We Are ExxonMobil leadership culture ExxonMobil’s strong culture has underpinned our success for decades. Our culture framework, We Are ExxonMobil, articulates our core values and leadership expectations necessary to position the company for long term success. It also outlines key skills that apply to all employees.Around the world, we share a commitment to excellence in pursuit of our common goals. Our expectations steer the actions and development of our leaders to achieve business results that meet and exceed our strategic business objectives.Our culture is enabled by a strong focus on leadership and key talent systems, including performance assessment, on-the-job experience and formal training. Redesign of our formal leadership learning programs started in 2019 with implementation of the programs beginning in 2022. These courses, developed in partnership with the University of Michigan and the University of North Carolina, are designed to help our supervisors and managers fully embrace We Are ExxonMobil, connect it with our strategic priorities and unlock the full potential of our workforce.Core valuesIntegrityBe honest and ethicalDo what is rightCareBe respectful and inclusiveLook after each otherContribute to the well-being of our communities and the environmentCourageTake initiative and make a difference Think boldly and act with convictionTake personal ownershipExcellenceHold ourselves to high standardsBe thoughtful, thorough and disciplinedResilienceBe determined and persevereBe purposeful and steadfast in our principlesExpectations of leadersSet standardsCreate clarityInspire and motivatePromote innovationCompete to winTwo ExxonMobil employees conversing and walking together.Our policies, systems, expectations and standardsThe methods we employ to attain results against our strategic priorities are as important as the results themselves. Each of our directors, officers and employees is expected to observe the highest standards of integrity.The Board of Directors has adopted and oversees the administration of our Standards of Business Conduct, which include foundation policies covering environment, health, safety, product safety, customer relations, equal employment opportunity and harassment in the workplace. This collection of policies and standards defines the global ethical conduct of ExxonMobil and its majority-owned subsidiaries. This includes detailing our values on important matters like human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Our directors, officers and employees are required to review these policies annually and apply them in their work.Across ExxonMobil’s global operations, we rigorously apply management systems to identify, track and report the metrics that demonstrate and guide our performance. These systems enable us to comply with regulations and provide a framework for maintaining high standards in places where applicable laws or regulations do not exist. These expectations provide the basis for managing risk and achieving excellence in each of our business lines.Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) establishes expectations that apply across all our operations to address risks inherent to our business, including environmental risks. The OIMS framework contains 11 elements related to leadership, operations and maintenance, community relations, emergency response, incident investigation and information and documentation, among others. It also provides protocols and guidance for mitigating risk. ExxonMobil monitors the performance of joint ventures and company assets operated by others against OIMS expectations and encourages them to consider improvements, as appropriate. Each element of OIMS contains overarching objectives and expectations. The OIMS framework also includes the characteristics of and processes for implementation.PDF link.Standards of Business ConductExxonMobil's Operational Integrity Management System is comprised of eleven components including One, Leading, managing and driving performance. Two, Identifying, assessing, mitigating and accepting risk. Three, Designing, constructing and preparing for start up. Four, Providing information needed for construction, operation and maintenance. Five, Selecting, training, engaging and enabling people. Six, Operating and maintaining assets. Seven, Managing changes. Eight, Selecting and engaging with third-party providers. Nine, Learning from operating experience and incidents. Ten, Preparing for emergencies and managing potential risk to the community. Eleven, Assessing and driving effectiveness. Web link.Operations integrity management system | ExxonMobilPDF link.Operations Integrity Management Systems brochure | ExxonMobilKey policies, systems and standards include:.	Controls Integrity Management System (CIMS): CIMS is used to assess and measure financial control risks, identify mitigation procedures, monitor compliance with standards and report results to the appropriate operations and management groups within ExxonMobil..	Sustainability Management: Environmental Aspects Guide (EAG): The EAG establishes a consistent approach to identify, evaluate and assess environmental and socioeconomic risks resulting from our activities so these risks can be managed..	Environmental Business Plans (EBPs): EBPs use a corporate-wide framework to address environmental requirements and expectations as part of the annual business cycle..	Environmental Data Management System (EDMS): EDMS is used to collect, collate and consolidate site-level data at the corporate level to help manage environmental performance indicators globally. EDMS is being integrated with existing site-based emissions monitoring and measurement systems to enable collection of up-to-date, site-specific information..	Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA): The ESHIA enables a formal analysis to identify key environmental, socioeconomic and health risks and develop strategies to manage these risks through the full life cycle of an asset..	ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS): EMCAPS provides a framework to guide project development and execution and helps account for environmental and socioeconomic concerns and regulatory requirements..	Global Energy Management System (GEMS): GEMS identifies opportunities to improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity in Downstream and Chemical operations, which are part of ExxonMobil Product Solutions..	IMPACT: IMPACT is a corporate-wide database which captures and analyzes safety and environmental data on incidents, near-misses, observations, assessment findings, lessons learned and follow-up activities..	National Content Guidelines, Strategies and Best Practices: This document contains the key elements of a national content strategy and plan, models and tools for the successful development of national content and roles and responsibilities at the corporate, country and project levels..	Product Stewardship Information Management System (PSIMS): PSIMS applies common global processes and a global computer system to capture and communicate information on the safe handling, transport, use and disposal of our products..	Project Environmental Standards (PES): PES identifies applicable company environmental standards for new projects, which provide environmental and social protections..	Technology Management System: Includes processes for technology investments that follow a gated management system from early technical innovation to final deployment.Web link.Management systems, standards and controlsPDF link.Environmental Aspects Guide (EAG)An ExxonMobil employee drives a forklift.An ExxonMobil employee walks along gravel, checking a metal pipeline next to a river.ApplicationExxonMobil has defined 14 Focus Areas to accelerate our sustainability progress. In developing these Focus Areas, we considered and analyzed our environmental and social impacts, business strategies and internal and external stakeholders.Topic selection processExxonMobil conducts assessments to identify environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics of interest to stakeholders and to enhance our understanding of current events and evolving business priorities. The results of these assessments help inform the development of our Sustainability Report.Ipieca, the global oil and gas association for advancing environmental and social performance across the energy transition, defines important topics as those that, in the view of management and external stakeholders, have the potential to significantly affect ESG performance and stakeholder awareness, assessments or decisions. In 2021, we engaged a third-party consultant to conduct a robust topic selection process in line with Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020) developed by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) referred to as “Ipieca/API/IOGP Guidance” in this report[3].Web link.Sustainability reporting guidance for the oil and gas industryThe topic selection process includes Identification, Prioritization, and Validation. Across these three steps of the process, we conducted a current state assessment, gathered stakeholder input, performed scoring and analysis on the identified risks and opportunities, and lastly validated the selected topics. IdentificationCurrent-state assessmentBuild a comprehensive set of potential priority ESG topics based on peer benchmarking and other researchPrioritizationStakeholder inputGather stakeholder input and associated evidence to support which ESG topics the company should prioritizeScoring and analysisSynthesize research and develop a results report that makes the business case for managing the selected topicsValidationValidationValidate and present the results, socialize internally and develop narrative on selected topicsWe identified topics based on peer benchmarking, a review of leading sustainability frameworks (including those published by Ipieca, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)), and other external research. We also engaged internal and external stakeholders to gather data on our community impacts and potential impacts on stakeholders. We analyzed peer and industry reporting, regulations and media and provided data-driven insights into strategic, regulatory and reputational risks and opportunities for ExxonMobil and its stakeholders. We carefully reviewed these inputs in order to select our topics. Global Operations and Sustainability leadership reviewed and validated the results of this topic selection process and supported alignment with our Sustainability Focus Areas.Stakeholder engagementWe work to foster mutual understanding, trust and cooperation with stakeholder groups on sustainability topics. We interact with these groups through community meetings, digital and social media, corporate publications and one-on-one discussions. Open dialogue enables us to hear concerns, discuss approaches and share plans. Across a range of stakeholder groups, including communities, non-governmental organizations, employees and shareholders, we continue to see broad interest in our impact on the communities we serve. Some of our primary stakeholder groups include:.	Academia.	Communities.	Customers.	Employees.	External Sustainability Advisory Panel.	Governments.	Non-governmental organizations (NGOs).	Shareholders.	Suppliers.	Trade associations and industry groupsEngagement approaches vary. Our goal is to better understand stakeholders’ views. We collaborate on topics such as technical projects, potential sustainability impacts, community concerns and public policy development. ExxonMobil hosts sessions to share information on project updates, market-based approaches to sustainable matters, policy insights and updates on the company’s safety, environmental and human rights practices. We also meet one-on-one with many stakeholders as part of ongoing business relationships. Two photos side by side. The left image shows a floating oil rig demonstrating energy security and the right image shows multiple lit up skyscrapers at night demonstrating energy solutions.Engaging with shareholdersExxonMobil is focused on creating long-term value while seeking to meet the world’s growing energy needs. Responsible engagement provides an effective forum to discuss issues and share relevant information, facts and viewpoints. The Nominating and Governance Committee has established procedures for shareholders and other interested parties to communicate with Board members. Individuals can email our non-employee directors through the corporate governance page of our website. All communications are recorded by an ExxonMobil assistant secretary or designated staff member and forwarded to the appropriate director or directors or otherwise handled as the Nominating and Governance Committee has directed.Every year, shareholders or their proxies may submit proposals regarding operations or governance. Company management and the Board consider each proposal and management seeks a dialogue with the proposal sponsor. When speaking with shareholders, we actively listen and, where possible, look to find common ground, potential for improvement and a better understanding of the issues raised. More information can be found in ExxonMobil’s 2022 Proxy Statement. Web link.Corporate governancePDF link.Proxy StatementPerformance and initiativesExxonMobil engages with shareholders or their proxies on a range of issues. Since 2016, we have more than doubled the number of sessions we hold on ESG issues with institutional investors, pension funds and labor, religious and nongovernmental organizations. In 2021, we held approximately 145 of these sessions with shareholders owning nearly 1.7 billion shares. The sessions comprise an estimated 77% of outstanding stock held by institutional investors and about 41% of total shares outstanding. These shareholder engagements can often eliminate the need for more formal shareholder proposals at the annual shareholders meeting. At the 2022 annual meeting, shareholders owning approximately 3.4 billion outstanding shares, or over 80%, were represented. In 2022, shareholders voted on 10 issues, including seven shareholder proposals. More information on the voting outcomes can be found in the 2022 proxy voting results.PDF link.Proxy Voting ResultsEngaging with governmentsExxonMobil believes that sound public policy should include input from a variety of stakeholders. We recognize policy decisions made at all levels of government can have significant effects on our current and future operations. We support sound policies promoting economic growth and stable investment for long-term business viability. As sound government policies are required and can act as an accelerator for lower-emission alternatives, ExxonMobil actively participates in climate-related policy discussions around the world.The company focuses on practical policy solutions that recognize the increasing global demand for affordable and reliable energy while enabling scalable development and deployment of lower- and zero- greenhouse gas emission technologies.Durable and predictable market-driven policies can further encourage these developments and increase investments in lower-emission technologies to help achieve the Paris Agreement goals at the lowest cost to society.ExxonMobil’s positions on climate, including its Scopes 1 and 2 net-zero 2050 ambition from operated assets, and other key issues are available at our website and in our Advancing Climate Solutions—2023 Progress Report, along with our annual proxy statement, press releases and the Exxchange, ExxonMobil’s online advocacy hub. Our lobbying and political contributions are aligned with these positions. Web link.Positions and principlesPDF link.Advancing Climate Solutions—2023 Progress ReportPDF link.Proxy StatementWeb link.Press releasesWeb link.ExxchangeU.S. lobbying expensesExxonMobil undertakes lobbying to advocate positions on issues that affect the company, the energy industry and competitive free markets. ExxonMobil has a rigorous process to determine which public policy issues are of most importance to the corporation.ExxonMobil also produces a Report on Lobbying, which lists all U.S. organizations of which ExxonMobil or its affiliates are members, membership fees and portions used for lobbying, along with amounts. The report also includes an accounting of the company’s direct lobbying and grassroots lobbying. ExxonMobil fully complies with federal and state regulations by reporting its federal lobbying to the U.S. Congress and state-level lobbying to appropriate entities, as required. ExxonMobil publicly reports, on a quarterly basis, its federal lobbying expenses and the specific issues lobbied. The total figure reported in ExxonMobil’s public Lobbying Disclosure Act filings includes expenses associated with the costs of employee federal lobbying, as well as those portions of payments to trade associations, coalitions and think tanks spent on federal lobbying.This process, along with the oversight of our lobbying and political engagement, can be found on our website.Web link.ExxonMobil report on lobbying activitiesPDF link.2020 Lobbying ReportUnited States Capitol building at night, with a busy street in the foreground.Zoomed out view of a city skyline at dusk.Political contributionsThe Board of Directors has authorized ExxonMobil to make political contributions to candidate committees and other political organizations as permitted by applicable laws. The Board annually reviews ExxonMobil’s political contributions, as well as contributions from the company-sponsored Political Action Committee (PAC). Internal audits of the corporation’s public and government affairs activities routinely verify contribution amounts. As required of U.S. federal contractors by law, ExxonMobil has not used corporate treasury funds to support any federal candidates, national political parties or other political committees, including Super Political Action Committees. ExxonMobil has chosen not to use treasury funds or PAC funds for direct independent political expenditures at the federal level, including electioneering[4] communications. Eligible employees and shareholders may participate in the U.S. political process by contributing to a voluntary, company-sponsored, federal PAC. ExxonMobil reports PAC contributions to the U.S. Federal Election Commission every month.Performance and initiativesIn 2021, ExxonMobil contributed $300,000 in support of five national political organizations of state officials. In addition, the company contributed $222,000 in election support to 197 state-level candidates and six committees in six U.S. states. Contributions are reported to applicable governing agencies and on our website.Web link.Political contributionsTransparency in payments to governmentsWe believe that disclosing relevant payments to governments is an important tool to reduce corruption, improve government accountability and promote greater economic stability worldwide. We consider the most successful transparency initiatives to be those that: .	Apply to all foreign, domestic and state-owned companies. .	Protect proprietary information to promote commercial competitiveness. .	Comply with international trade conventions and treaties..	Do not violate host government laws or contractual obligations.Our Sustainability Focus Areas ExxonMobil’s 14 Sustainability Focus Areas articulate sustainability in the context of our business. These areas are where we believe we have the most potential impact to both ExxonMobil and society. We develop strategies, allocate resources and execute plans to address risks and opportunities within each Focus Area. Delivering economic benefitsAdvancing climate solutionsExpanding the plastics life cycle Enhancing process safety Conserving water resources Improving air quality Managing socioeconomic impactsRespecting human rightsReducing impacts to land and habitats Minimizing operational waste Evaluating product benefits with life cycle assessmentsProgressing product safety Leading in personnel safetyInvesting in peopleGreen rolling hills with a mountain in the background.Three ExxonMobil employees conversing in a meeting.PerformanceWe improve in these areas by implementing plans, executing processes and tracking progress. We report on our sustainability performance within each Focus Area throughout this document. We have built an organizational and governance structure around our Focus Areas to ensure top-to-bottom and bottom-to-top alignment. Our objectives and strategies ensure a consistent approach across the company while empowering our business lines to take action and advance our sustainability priorities.Communicating progressExxonMobil publishes several comprehensive reports annually to provide insights into how we create value through our integrated businesses and how we manage associated risks, opportunities and impacts.PDF link.Our Advancing Climate Solutions—2023 Progress Report outlines our work toward a lower-emission future.PDF link.Our Outlook for Energy is our view of global energy demand and supply, which helps inform our long-term business strategies, energy and energy transition investment plans and research programs.PDF link.Our Annual Report provides information on our prior-year operating and financial performance while highlighting our advantaged portfolio and competitive strengths in technology, scale, integration, functional excellence and people that enable us to create value.PDF link.Our Sustainability Report details our approach to managing ESG topics across our operations and describes our performance in these areas.Supporting the United Nations The United Nations has adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to achieve progress on global economic, social and environmental challenges by 2030. Although the goals are directed at governments, the private sector and civil society play an important role in supporting national plans. ExxonMobil supports governments’ efforts to meet the SDGs. Most notably our aim to create sustainable solutions that improve quality of life and meet society’s evolving needs, supports progress toward U.N. SDG 7, “Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy.” Our business and sustainability efforts enable ExxonMobil to help advance prosperity and power economies through the supply of reliable and affordable energy and products. Energy and human development are inextricably linked; access to energy and essential products enables both economic and social progress through improved living standards and opportunities. Far too many people still do not have access to modern energy and products. ExxonMobil is well positioned to contribute to supplying the energy and products the world needs and to play a leading role in a lower-emissions future.As we continue to help supply this energy, we also support progress toward SDG 13, “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.” We work to provide innovative solutions that aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across our operated assets, help customers reduce their emissions and develop and deploy scalable technologies to help decarbonize high-emitting sectors. These actions support our 2030 greenhouse gas emission reduction plans and our net-zero by 2050 ambition concerning Scope 1 and 2 emissions at operated assets. These actions are supported by our plans to invest approximately $17 billion through 2027 on lower greenhouse gas emission initiatives. A significant share is focused on scaling up carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and biofuels opportunities that underpin our Low Carbon Solutions business.The ExxonMobil Product Solutions portfolio also supports progress toward SDG 12, “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.” Our Product Solutions business provides materials used in the production of solutions across health care and medical, agricultural, food and beverage packaging and other applications. We are advancing infrastructure and technology for collecting, sorting and processing discarded plastics, which includes our plans to build approximately 500,000 metric tons annually of advanced recycling capacity by year-end 2026 across multiple sites. Advanced recycling enables a broader range of plastic waste to be recycled back into high-value raw materials.Web link.Sustainable Development GoalsSustainable Development Goal 7: Affordable and Clean EnergySustainable Development Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and ProductionSustainable Development Goal 13: Climate ActionA United Nations' building with international flags raised in the wind.Bird's eye view of a city with a large river cutting through the middle.