Section 10 |  Our risk management approach The Hebron platform is located off the coast of eastern Canada in 92 meters of water . The platform is a reinforced concrete gravity-based structure designed to withstand sea ice, icebergs, and meteorological and oceanographic conditions . Hebron was engineered and wave-tank tested for storms so extreme they may occur only once every 10,000 years . On Nov . 14, 2018, the Grand Banks saw its largest storm in 30 years, estimated as a 100-year return period event . Following temporary shutdown of all Grand Banks platforms, Hebron was up and running within a week without any major issues .  Our scientists and engineers are industry experts across a variety of disciplines . Through their active participation and leadership in industry groups, they advise and gather insights to inform and improve industry standards which, in turn, are adopted to enhance our standards and procedures . We follow industry practices such as the American Society of Civil Engineers’ Climate Resilient Infrastructure: Adaptive Design and Risk Management manual of practice .56 Industry standards, including American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE 7)57 Minimum Design Loads and Associated Criteria for Buildings and Other Structures, are also used along with professional experience to cover a range of uncertainties . After construction of a facility, we monitor and manage ongoing facility integrity through periodic checks of key aspects of the structures .  The Gulf Coast Growth Venture, a petrochemical manufacturing facility near Corpus Christi, Texas, is compliant with both San Patricio County and national standards (ASCE 7) . Stormwater handling is a risk factor associated with the facility, so the design includes basins to retain excess stormwater to supplement the capacity of the municipal water system . The design, construction, and operations of petrochemical facilities are highly regulated by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality . Company representatives held hundreds of outreach meetings with local organizations, chambers, government agencies, civic groups and neighborhoods and have addressed comments and concerns raised during the permitting process . More information on the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality permitting process can be found on its website .58 Once facilities are in operation, we maintain disaster preparedness, response, and business continuity plans . Detailed, well-practiced, and continuously improved emergency response plans are tailored to each facility to help us prepare for unplanned events, including extreme weather . Periodic emergency drills are conducted with appropriate government agencies and community coalitions to help heighten readiness and minimize the impacts of an event . Strategic emergency support groups are established around the world to develop and practice emergency response strategies and assist field responders . Regardless of the size or complexity of any potential incident, each ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to readily available trained responders, including regional response teams, to provide rapid tactical support . Our PNG LNG facilities and pipelines were designed to withstand extreme earthquakes in one of the world’s most active seismic zones . In 2018, our facilities sustained a magnitude 7 .5 earthquake with no injuries and no loss of containment . An ExxonMobil site response team was immediately formed to stabilize the operations, evaluate the damage, and make repairs as needed . As a result of the robust design, extensive preparatory work and response, the facility returned to operations in less than six weeks . We incorporated the learnings from the successful response into our Facilities Integrity Management System and applied them across our global facilities . We have a robust governance framework designed to oversee risks and opportunities associated with our business . This enables our Board and management to effectively exercise oversight responsibilities . Our Board of Directors oversees and provides guidance on the company’s strategy and planning, which includes opportunities and risks related to climate change and the energy transition . Directors engage with experts from inside and outside the company and apply their individual experience and perspective to guide the company’s capital-allocation priorities, with a focus on growing shareholder value and playing a leading role in the energy transition . The independent lead director plays a key role in these shareholder engagements and, in consultation with the Chairman, develops Board meeting agendas . Assessing climate risk The Board, collectively and through its Environment, Safety and Public Policy (ESPP) Committee, regularly engages with senior management on climate matters and our environmental approach and performance . This includes briefings with internal and external subject-matter experts, which can cover elements of scientific and technical research, public policy positions, greenhouse gas emission-reduction performance, and new technology developments . As part of the business planning process, the Board reviews and discusses technology deployment within the business lines and research on new technology to further Scope 1 and 2 emission reductions for ExxonMobil’s operated assets . The Board approves company strategy and annual capital allocation, and reviews assumptions and sensitivities in testing major projects and investments for resiliency across a range of potential outcomes . After discussion and dialogue with ExxonMobil management, the Board exercised its oversight in endorsing the company’s plans through 2027 . This included increasing investments in lower-emission initiatives to approximately $17 billion during that period . Independent directors engage directly with shareholders to gather insights and share perspectives on issues of importance to the company, including discussions regarding the risks and opportunities related to climate change and the energy transition . The Board uses its committees to oversee a broad spectrum of interrelated risks and opportunities to grow shareholder value, with each committee incorporating aspects of climate-related risks within their charters . • The Environment, Safety and Public Policy Committee oversees operational risks associated with safety, security, health, and environmental performance including actions taken to address climate-related risks, lobbying activities and expenditures, and community engagement . • The Finance Committee oversees risks associated with the company’s capital structure and capital allocation, including actions to enhance resiliency . • The Audit Committee oversees ExxonMobil’s overall enterprise risk management approach and structure, “ As chair of our ESPP Committee, I’m proud to work on key issues related to climate risk at ExxonMobil . With my experience as an atmospheric scientist and a leader at a global research organization, I am committed to helping to advise the Board on public issues of significance . The diverse backgrounds and knowledge of the ESPP Committee members enable us to take an in-depth look at issues surrounding safety, security, health and the environment to support the full Board . The members of the ESPP Committee bring valuable, complementary expertise in the fields of science, research, risk management and public policy . They also bring experience in running large, complex organizations, including managing the risks involved in global businesses . The members of the ESPP Committee are united in our commitment to position ExxonMobil as an industry leader in pursuing sustainable solutions that improve quality of life and meet society’s evolving needs .” Dr. Susan Avery Chair of the Environment, Safety and Public Policy Committee Former President and Director – Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution; Former Interim Dean of the Graduate School, Vice Chancellor for Research, Interim Provost, Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs – University of Colorado Boulder which is applied to risks related to climate change, • The Compensation Committee reviews executive among other business risks . compensation, which is aligned with the long.term interests of shareholders and requires careful • The Nominating and Governance Committee consideration of current and future risks, such as oversees matters of corporate governance, those related to climate change . including Board transition and refreshment . Section 11 |  Governance and executive compensation Integrating energy transition risk management into executive compensation The executive compensation program is designed to incentivize long-term, sustainable decision-making . Key design features include performance shares with long vesting periods and compensation that is strongly tied to the company’s performance . The program is based on four strategic objectives that are established to drive sustainable growth in shareholder value while positioning the company for long-term success in a lower-emission future . These objectives are interdependent, with long-term business success determined by delivery in each of the strategic objectives . Strategic objectives are integrated into the corporate plan, which is reviewed and finalized by the Board each year . This approach helps ensure accountability  Two of the four strategic objectives specifically Financial and operating metrics tie to the company's integrate climate risk: strategic objectives and are assessed over near- and • Operations performance: deliver industry-leading long-term time horizons . performance in safety, emissions-intensity Details on the executive compensation program can reductions, environmental performance and be found in the company’s annual Proxy Statement . reliability . • Energy transition: lead industry in reducing emissions in hard-to-decarbonize sectors .  Long-term strategic objectives FINANCIALOPERATIONS ENERGY BUSINESSPERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE TRANSITION PORTFOLIO Deliver industry-Deliver Lead industry in Optimize existingindustry-leading leading earnings hard-to decarbonize business portfolio performance and cash-flow emissions reductions  at all levels in the organization, as accomplishments versus the plan goals and objectives inform the level of compensation .  growth Supported by financial and operating metrics LTIR, spills, GHG emissions intensity, flaring intensity, methane emissions intensity, ROCE, CFOAS, TSR  Investing approximately $17 billion to reduce emissions We are putting more money and resources behind our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our operated assets and to be a leader in the energy transition . Low Carbon Solutions Since formally launching ExxonMobil’s Low Carbon Solutions business in early 2021, we have significantly grown the pipeline of emission-reduction opportunities in carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, and lower-emission fuels . Low Carbon Solutions is quickly establishing itself as a partner of choice by leveraging our unique combination of existing assets, technical capabilities, project management skills, and broad relationships with industry and governments . The chart illustrates our broad set of competitively advantaged opportunities around the world . Individual opportunities may advance based on a number of factors, including availability of supportive policy, technology for cost-effective abatement, and alignment with our partners and other stakeholders . 59 Biofuels CCS/H. solutions ExxonMobil emissions reduction Carbon capture and storage Carbon capture and storage is the process of capturing CO. emissions from industrial activity or power plants at the source and injecting it into deep underground geologic formations for safe, secure, and permanent storage. The injected CO. is held in place by thick, impermeable seal rocks thousands of feet underground, which are similar to the rocks that have kept oil, natural gas, and naturally occurring CO. underground for millions of years . Carbon capture and storage on its own, or in combination with hydrogen production, is among the few proven technologies that could enable significant CO. emission reductions from high-emitting and hard-to-decarbonize sectors, such as power generation and heavy industries, including manufacturing, refining, steel, cement, and petrochemicals . According to the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, carbon capture and storage can capture more than 90% of CO. emissions from power plants and industrial facilities .60 Section 13 |  Low Carbon Solutions The IEA NZE report concludes that more than 7.6 billion metric tons per year of CO. will need to be captured and stored by 2050 in order to reach a net-zero future . By comparison, the world’s current capture capacity is about 40 million metric tons of CO. per year.61 The agency has also said “reaching net zero will be virtually impossible” without carbon capture and storage .62 The IPCC estimates that the cost of achieving a 2°C outcome would more than double if carbon capture and storage were not among the decarbonization solutions .63 Carbon capture and storage is also recognized as critical to enabling removal of CO. from the atmosphere when combined with bio-energy or direct air capture . We have advanced a large number of carbon capture and storage opportunities and lead the industry in successful deployment of this technology . We continue to evaluate and progress potential future projects around the world . We identify opportunities with concentrated streams of CO. near sites with safe and secure storage space, and where we can  use existing infrastructure to gain scale to offer to more cost-effectively reduce our own emissions economical solutions to customers . and provide additional carbon capture and storage to our customers . It would be our initial contribution to An example of this is the carbon capture and storage a broad, cross-industry effort to establish a Houston component of our announced blue hydrogen carbon capture and storage hub with an initial goal of facility at Baytown . This project has the potential about 50 million metric tons of CO. per year by 2030 to transport and store up to 10 million metric tons and 100 million metric tons by 2040 . of CO. per year, more than doubling ExxonMobil’s current carbon capture capacity . At this facility, we can leverage existing scale and infrastructure needed ExxonMobil has more than 30 years of experience capturing and storing CO., and has cumulatively captured more anthropogenic CO. than any other company. It has an equity share of about one-fifth of the world’s carbon capture capacity64 at about 9 million metric tons per year, which is the equivalent of approximately 2 million gasoline-powered passenger vehicles per year .65  Baytown blue hydrogen Natural gas Fuel-switching customers ExxonMobil Baytown integrated site H. Other Houston-area facilities World-scale blue hydrogen plant CO. World-scale CCS project CO. Other Houston-area facilities (~10 Mta) CCS capacity for Houston-area industrial emissions  Source: ExxonMobil analysis of EPA Facility Level Information on Greenhouse Gases Tool, 2019 data as of Feb . 15, 2022 . An important aspect of any carbon capture and storage project is having an adequate amount of geologic storage to safely and securely store CO.. Over the past year, we have identified and gained access to nearly 150,000 acres of onshore land in the U .S . for use as secure geologic storage . Building on our long record of successful collaborations with host governments around the world, we are also negotiating to gain access to nationally owned acreage that holds potential for CO. storage. Another vital element of establishing a successful business is building a customer base, and our recently announced collaboration with CF Industries and EnLink Midstream highlights some of our progress . This landmark project is expected to capture up to 2 million metric tons of CO. emissions annually from CF Industries' existing operations in Louisiana and safely and securely transport and permanently store them . At the time of signing, this is the largest-of.its-kind commercial agreement and is equivalent to replacing approximately 700,000 gasoline-powered cars with electric vehicles .66 Hydrogen We are evaluating strategic investments in hydrogen to expand the use of this important lower-emission energy technology . Hydrogen is a zero-carbon energy carrier that could serve as an affordable and reliable source of energy for hard-to-decarbonize industrial processes in the steel, refining, and chemical sectors, as well as heavy-duty trucking .67 Low-carbon hydrogen can be produced from low-carbon electricity via electrolysis of water (“green hydrogen”), natural gas reforming coupled with carbon capture and storage (“blue hydrogen”), and other processes . We have extensive experience with hydrogen, and produce about 1 .3 million metric tons annually . We have announced a blue hydrogen production plant at Baytown, Texas, that would produce nearly 1 million metric tons per year of hydrogen – increasing our capacity by more than 65% . This quantity of new low-carbon hydrogen capacity highlights one of the benefits that blue hydrogen can bring to society today, which is its immense scale . We also signed a memorandum of understanding with SGN and Macquarie’s Green Investment Group to explore the use of hydrogen and carbon capture to reduce CO. emissions in England’s Southampton industrial cluster . In addition, we are evaluating large-scale production of blue hydrogen for the Rotterdam industrial complex and have provided funding to Hydrogen4EU, a cross-sectoral research project confirming that hydrogen is essential to help meet the EU Green Deal’s 2050 net-zero goals . Advancing hydrogen through collaboration We are participating in cross-industry initiatives to identify the technology advancements and government policies required to deploy low-carbon hydrogen at scale . For example, existing natural gas transmission infrastructure has the potential to be used for hydrogen transport . Our membership in the U .S . HyBlend consortium will help address the technical barriers of blending hydrogen into natural gas pipeline systems . We are a sponsor of the Open Hydrogen Initiative, which was formed to measure hydrogen production carbon intensity, advance transparency, and support development of a globally traded hydrogen market . It is led by GTI Energy, S&P Global Commodity Insights, and the U .S . Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory . R&D Spotlight: Our hydrogen value chain We innovate new materials and process enhancements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on a life-cycle basis, accelerating change as existing and emerging technologies grow to meet scale and cost challenges . In our Low Carbon Solutions business, we are developing innovative technology and process opportunities for blue hydrogen to drive down the cost of abatement . H. transport Customers Hydrogen uses: •Industrial facilities •ElectricityCO. capture •Heavy-duty vehicles •Other transportation CO. transport CO. storage Hydrogen transport We are working with the U .S . Department of Energy to help the industry understand the challenges and opportunities of transporting hydrogen through existing natural gas pipeline infrastructure .68 At the same time, we are working with industry organizations to develop standards for safe hydrogen transport, enabling scalable, long-distance delivery of hydrogen to end users . CO. capture We continue to research technologies, compounds, and materials to more efficiently capture carbon . These innovations include a new metal organic framework69 that is highly selective to CO., as well as advanced amines that provide enhanced efficiency and stability .70 CO. transport We are working closely with suppliers and logistics partners to develop new materials and designs for offshore transport, and we partner with a wide range of experts on materials integrity for pipeline transport and storing CO.. CO. storage We are working with leading universities and other research organizations to improve modeling of geologic storage, including seal characterization for containment assessment, as well as optimal long.term monitoring of stored CO..71 Our research and experimental efforts are advancing knowledge in areas such as monitoring requirements and effective storage capacity . Direct air capture With Global Thermostat, we are developing novel processes and robust materials to efficiently increase the rate and quality of CO. capture. While more research and development is needed, direct air capture is increasingly recognized to have a significant role to play in global decarbonization efforts . Nature-based solutions We are piloting a grassland restoration initiative in the Permian Basin, targeting improved carbon sequestration in soil and research on microbial communities in the soil . Life-cycle approach We are working with the MIT Energy Initiative72 to develop a new life-cycle approach tool that covers pathways of multiple technologies representing most sources of greenhouse gas emissions, including pathways of producing blue hydrogen . Lower-emission fuels Lower-emission fuels have the high energy density required to meet the needs of commercial transportation . For example, renewable diesel can reduce carbon emissions by up to 70% compared to conventional diesel .21 We are focused on growing lower-emission fuels by leveraging current technology and infrastructure, in addition to continuing research in advanced biofuels that could provide improved longer-term solutions through upgrading lower-value bio-based feedstock . We are working to supply approximately 40,000 barrels per day of lower-emission fuel by 2025 and have a further goal of 200,000 barrels per day by 2030 . Achieving this goal will help society reduce more than 25 million metric tons of CO.-equivalent emissions per year from the transportation sector .53 We monitor policy and technology developments around the world that are creating markets for lower-emission fuels and will help support accretive investments in a wide range of technologies . We support market-based, technology-neutral policies that recognize life-cycle emissions and incentivize the production of lower-carbon-intensity fuels, including fuels used in shipping and aviation . Advancing lower-emission fuels through collaboration In Canada, ExxonMobil’s affiliate, Imperial Oil, announced a long-term contract with a supplier of low-carbon hydrogen at the Strathcona refinery . The project is designed to use low-carbon hydrogen, canola oil feedstock, and our proprietary catalyst to produce approximately 20,000 barrels per day of renewable diesel, thereby reducing transportation-related emissions by about 3 million metric tons of CO.-equivalent annually.73 Our joint venture in Norway is expected to provide approximately 2,000 barrels per day of renewable products upon completion . The site will use leftover wood material from the forest industry (also called woody biomass) that meets Europe’s 9A, U .K . development fuel, and U .S . advanced cellulosic designations . The venture is also evaluating production of renewable jet fuel through low-cost modifications to our equipment . We are conducting co-processing trials in our facilities using proprietary technology to produce lower-emission fuels . The ability to co-process bio-feed through an existing fluid catalytic cracker or hydrotreater could allow for faster delivery of lower-emission fuels to customers compared to construction of new facilities requiring large capital investments . We are evaluating how to deploy our capacity to co-process 100,000 barrels per day of lower-emission fuels to markets where supportive policy exists . We are evaluating opportunities to lower life-cycle emissions through conversion of bio-based feedstocks for diesel production . With the processes ExxonMobil has developed and our proprietary dewaxing catalyst, we can convert waste fats or vegetable oils into renewable fuels with less byproduct formation and hydrogen consumption than other methods . With an additional step, we could use this same process to make sustainable aviation fuel . We recently announced a new technology that can produce jet fuel using renewable methanol as the feedstock . This methanol has a lower carbon intensity and can be made through either gasification of bio-feeds, such as wood waste, or captured CO. and H. made by electrolysis of water using renewable electricity . The lower-emission methanol can be converted into sustainable aviation fuel using our innovative technology . We expect this process will provide a higher yield of jet fuel than Sustainable aviation fuel other techniques for the same feedstock, with the potential to be used to make other fuels or chemicals . CO. Renewable electricity Bio-based feed Renewable Sustainable (like wood waste, methanol aviation fuel municipal solid waste) Nature-based solutions Nature-based solutions include leveraging natural systems as CO. sinks while protecting, sustainably managing, and restoring ecosystems to help address certain societal environmental challenges, including preservation of biodiversity and atmospheric CO. levels. We are piloting native grassland restoration in the Permian as a method by which to increase carbon sequestration in soil in degraded lands . This effort will test multiple land restoration methodologies, targeting improved carbon sequestration in soil and an understanding of how the practices alter microbial communities in the soil . By exploring enhancements in these natural sink capabilities, including monitoring, reporting and verification methodologies, high-quality offsets can be demonstrated from these carbon removal activities . When it comes to reducing methane emissions, we are making significant progress as we continue to improve our methods of detection and measurement . Through 2021, we reduced methane emissions intensity from all operated assets by more than 40% and absolute methane emissions by nearly half since 2016 . We achieved our results by: • Reducing total flaring by more than 75% from our Permian Basin operated assets compared to 2019, resulting in one of the lowest flaring intensities in the basin .74 • Enhancing operations protocols and developing plans for implementation of a comprehensive methane-monitoring and leak-detection program . • Design improvements, including electrifying operations and enhancing the reliability of storage tank facilities, and elimination of high-bleed, natural gas-driven pneumatic devices across our U .S . unconventional operated assets . Reducing corporate-wide methane emissions intensity8 We are working to eliminate all of our natural-gas.driven pneumatic devices by 2025 in our key U .S . unconventional operated assets and to accelerate the phaseout of these devices across all of our global operated assets where technically feasible . Aiming for zero methane emissions We are a founding signatory to the Aiming for Zero Methane Emissions Initiative announced in March 2022 .75 As part of this initiative, we are working to reach near-zero methane emissions from our operated oil and gas assets by 2030 . This initiative builds upon our 2030 greenhouse gas emission-reduction plans, which include a 70-80% reduction in corporate-wide methane intensity compared to 2016 levels .7 These plans include actions that are expected to cut corporate-wide absolute methane emissions by an estimated 70% compared to 2016 levels, and achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from our unconventional operated assets in the Permian Basin . Our plans are consistent with the Global Methane Pledge and the U .S . Methane Emissions Reduction Action Plan . These efforts are also expected to eliminate routine flaring in our Permian Basin operated assets by year-end 2022 and across our global upstream assets by 2030 in line with World Bank Zero Routine Flaring Initiative . Methane emissions measurement and reporting We support strong measurement, reporting, and verification standards as part of a broad suite of regulations to help reduce methane emissions . We have publicly reported methane emissions on an annual basis since 2014 . This data is based on internationally recognized methodologies and compiled every year by determining emissions by source at each operated asset across the company . Our reporting framework has enabled the development of consistent and comparable data, which along with our growing field observations has guided our mitigation efforts . We are focused on emissions mitigation and the transition to observation-based emission quantification of potential non-routine sources . This is why we continue to develop and deploy enhanced technologies to ensure rapid detection, mitigation, and quantification of these non-routine sources at our operated assets . Since 2019, we have been using airplane-based surveys as enhanced leak detection in the Permian Basin, with expectations to deploy additional ground-based continuous monitors on storage tank facilities by 2025 . In space Global imaging Emissions can be detected by satellite surveillance technology. Data is collected as the satellite rapidly orbits the earth. In the air Regional deployments Using helicopters and airplanes, ExxonMobil is trialing different airborne technologies fitted with methane sensors to detect and quantify emissions. On the ground Facility installations and equipment surveillance ExxonMobil is also testing a ground-based leak detection system that combines research in sensing technology, plume modeling, and data analytics to identify leaks for repair. We have also partnered with Scepter to develop satellite-based technology to improve global methane detection and quantification . Currently, ExxonMobil and Scepter are collaborating to design and optimize satellite placement and coverage, initially focused on capturing methane emissions data from our operations in the Permian Basin . Scepter anticipates deploying satellites and increasing coverage to more than 24 satellites over three years, forming a large constellation network capable of monitoring oil and natural gas operations around the world . We also collaborate with others on leading-edge research and on piloting new technologies in our operations to help industry reduce its methane emissions . For example, Project Astra is a collaboration of universities, environmental groups and industry partners that is developing an innovative sensor network to continuously monitor methane emissions across large areas of Texas for quick and efficient leak detection and repair . We are participating in this high-frequency monitoring system that will enable operators to more easily direct resources to specific locations and could provide a more affordable, efficient solution to reduce methane emissions . In 2021, the initiative completed its first phase of sensor evaluation and following that successful campaign, the project launched a small-scale pilot in 2022 in the Permian Basin . To further advance the scientific understanding of satellite-based methane detection, we are collaborating with Stanford University and with the Collaboratory for Advancing Methane Science to progress field and desktop studies to better understand capabilities of current deployed satellite technology . Through the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, we are working with GHGSat to finance monitoring of industry methane plumes in Iraq, one of the world’s largest methane emitters . If successful, this initiative could be extended to other methane hotspots . We have long participated in industry and academic consortiums to advance the scientific understanding of the calculations and models . We recently joined the Gas Technology Institute-led Project Veritas to develop and implement a standardized, science-based, technology-neutral, measurement-informed approach to reporting methane emissions . Certified natural gas As part of another key effort in our methane emissions management program, we continue to expand the volume of natural gas production that is independently certified by the non-profit organization MiQ . In April 2022, we announced that approximately 200 million cubic feet per day of natural gas produced from our Permian Basin facilities at Poker Lake, New Mexico, was independently certified and received the top grade for methane emissions management . We are the first company to achieve certification for natural gas production associated with oil . The certification from MiQ helps us meet customer demand for energy produced with lower methane emissions . It also helps us identify areas for improvement . Currently, we are working to expand certification in other unconventional operated assets, including Appalachia and Haynesville . Enabling emissions reductions with high-performance plastics and advanced recycling Plastics play a vital role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and enabling modern life . They also play an important role in our portfolio . That is why we are focused on providing the products the world needs while working to develop and deploy solutions to reduce plastic waste . To this end, we have started up our first, large-scale advanced recycling facility and are progressing activities throughout the world with the expectation to have about 1 billion pounds of annual advanced recycling capacity by year-end 2026 . Plastics are increasingly one of society’s materials of choice because of their superior performance, affordability, and life-cycle benefits compared to alternatives . Step into any hospital, kitchen, daycare center, science lab, airplane, or automobile, and you will find abundant examples of critical plastic products . The plastics found in cell phones, computers, vehicles, packaging, surgical devices, personal protective equipment, facemasks, and many other applications provide countless benefits as well . Plastics are instrumental to achieving many of the U .N . Sustainable Development Goals . In the IEA NZE by 2050 scenario, the demand for chemicals is expected to grow more than 30% versus 2020,76 and plastics make up approximately half of that total volume . They protect against disease, preserve food, and increase access to clean drinking water . Greenhouses covered with plastic film help grow fresh fruit and vegetables, while plastic pipes and reusable pouches help deliver water in developing countries . Plastics also further the goal of addressing climate change by helping to reduce emissions . On a life-cycle basis, plastic packaging has 54% lower greenhouse gas emissions compared to alternative materials as a group, including aluminum, glass and paper .15 In addition, a recent report from McKinsey & Company comparing plastics versus next-best alternatives showed that in 13 of the 14 applications studied, plastics had greenhouse gas savings ranging between 10-90% .77 And a 2016 TruCost study found that replacing plastic in consumer products and packaging with alternatives that perform the same function would have nearly four times the negative impact on the environment on a full life-cycle basis .78 Plastics are also used in many lower-emission technologies, such as solar panels, energy-saving building insulation, and lightweight, fuel-efficient vehicles . Plastics enable 6-8% fuel efficiency improvement for every 10% reduction in vehicle weight .18 As an industry leader in delivering high-performing, cost-competitive plastics solutions for our customers, we are using our advantages in scale, integration, and technology to help reduce emissions and plastic waste in the environment . Enabling emissions reductions We are helping our customers reduce their life-cycle emissions by making thinner, lighter plastics that enable them to do more with fewer emissions and to avoid reliance on alternative materials with higher life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions . Our ExceedTM and EnableTM performance polyethylene make downgauging possible, i .e ., the use of less plastic to perform the same function . For example, our customers can produce lighter weight packaging that reduces shipping weight, thereby lowering emissions . Our polyethylene technology also makes it possible to use more recycled plastic in packaging, and to make plastic packaging easier to recycle . Using plastics for packaging in the U .S . helps society avoid life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions versus alternatives . In terms of ExxonMobil 2030 volumes into U .S . plastics packaging, this would equate to approximately 13 million metric tons per year of U .S .-enabled avoided emissions .54 If applied globally, our plastics could enable approximately 40 million metric tons per year of avoided emissions .79 Leveraging technology to reduce waste and emissions We are helping reduce plastic waste by expanding our advanced recycling capacity . This technology complements traditional mechanical recycling by using chemical processes to break down to the molecular level hard-to-recycle plastics, turning them into raw materials that can be used to make new, virgin-quality plastics and other valuable products . Advanced recycling Chemical processes are used to break down difficult-to-recycle plastics to the molecular level to make new raw materials. Since the start of pilot operations at Baytown last year, we have recycled nearly 15 million pounds of plastic waste with our Exxtend™ technology for advanced recycling . In December, our Baytown team started up one of North America’s largest advanced plastic waste recycling facilities, with the capacity to recycle approximately 80 million pounds of plastic waste per year . We are planning Sorting Sorting of plastic enables recycling to leverage the technology used in Baytown at our sites in Belgium, the Netherlands, Canada, and other U .S . locations . We are also collaborating with third parties on advanced recycling projects in France, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Singapore . By year-end 2026, we expect to build about 1 billion pounds of annual advanced recycling capacity . This is significant capacity that can be expanded further with supportive government policies and technology advancements in the collection and sorting of plastic waste . To help address this challenge, we formed the joint venture Cyclyx International together with Agilyx Corp ., which is developing innovative solutions for aggregating and pre-processing large volumes of plastic waste that can be recycled into valuable products . This includes a collaboration with Cyclyx and Tencate Turf Recycling Solutions to recycle artificial turf that might otherwise end up in a landfill . We are investing in Cyclyx’s first-of-its-kind plastic waste processing facility in Houston, which will provide feed for plastic recyclers, including ExxonMobil . Cyclyx and ExxonMobil are also both founding members of the Houston Recycling Collaboration, which brings together industry and government to increase access to plastic recycling . Our advanced recycling technology enhances the circularity of plastics with reduced greenhouse gas emissions on a feedstock basis . According to a 2022 carbon footprint assessment by Sphera, every ton of waste plastic processed using our advanced recycling technology results in at least 19% lower greenhouse gas emissions compared to processing the same amount of crude-based feedstocks .80 The IEA, in its Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario, assumes 55% of the world’s plastic waste will be recycled by 2050 . We are uniquely positioned with our scale, integration, and technology to significantly expand advanced recycling capacity and help broaden the range of plastics that society recycles . This is pivotal for improving overall plastic recycling rates and for meeting growing customer demand for recycled products . We have completed sales of circular plastics to customers around the world for use in food-safe plastic packaging, including collaborations with Sealed Air and Ahold Delhaize USA, Berry Global, and Amcor . Plastics are an integral part of our Product Solutions business . By working with others in industry, governments, communities, and consumers, we are helping address plastic waste by expanding our advanced recycling capacity while delivering products that bring important benefits to everyday life . Our fundamental research seeks to identify and progress new technologies that, once proven, could one day be deployed at a commercial scale by market participants . centers, and several U .S . national laboratories . We also monitor emerging lower-emission These collaborations have increased knowledge technologies for future research opportunities and important to the energy transition, including to improve understanding of likely energy transition fugitive methane emissions detection, modeling, pathways . Our research and development approach and optimization techniques to understand CO. focuses on areas that align with our businesses, storage, electrification of processes, lower-emission recognizing that not every endeavor will prove to be fuels, and energy systems models . scalable or commercially viable .  The R&D process can take years or even decades and does not result in success for every endeavor . Individual projects advance based on a number of factors, including availability of supportive policy, technology for cost-effective abatement, and alignment with our partners and other stakeholders . As we work to advance carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and lower-emission fuels opportunities, we are also investing in research and development aimed at next-generation, lower-emission solutions . We employ thousands of scientists and engineers, including more than 1,500 Ph .D .s . Their work drives our research in areas such as new catalytic and separation materials, novel low-energy processes, and improved means of CO. storage. Our scientists have written more than 1,000 peer-reviewed publications and received more than 10,000 patents over the past decade . In addition, we collaborate with more than 80 universities around the world, four energy  • Emerging technology • Engineering • Material science • Chemistry • Energy modeling • Physics • Process technology • Mathematics  National labs  Conversion/separation New catalytic materials – Our proprietary catalysts have applications in lower-emission fuels, including renewable fuels . For example, our dewaxing catalyst provides higher yield with less hydrogen consumption by improving the diesel flow even at low temperatures . Low energy membranes – Reducing the energy needed to sort molecules (i .e ., isolate hydrocarbons for use in the refining or chemical process) can dramatically reduce emissions in our manufacturing . Our scientists are building off years of research with university partners to identify ways to improve the scalability of this technology .81, 82 GHG abatement and energy efficiency – As part of our 2030 roadmaps, we are working across our sites to apply modeling that can drive efficiencies, explore opportunities for electrification and heat recovery, and pursue the full range of large and small optimizations that may lower emissions . Advanced recycling – Our proprietary advanced recycling process can leverage our existing integrated facilities to transform plastic waste into the raw materials used in making valuable products, including virgin-quality plastic . Products Hydrogen – We are working with the U .S . Department of Energy and industry organizations to evaluate safe and cost-effective hydrogen transport, which could enable us to grow the supply of hydrogen for a wide range of end users .83 Structural materials – We collaborate with a range of external stakeholders to advance more sustainable materials for use in infrastructure . One example is our support for Stanford University to develop composite durability models for architects and engineers to incorporate into their designs .84 Lower-emission fuels – Our continuing research in advanced biofuels could provide improved longer-term solutions by upgrading lower-value, bio-based feedstock into renewable methanol for use in aviation fuels and more . Carbon management Carbon capture and storage – We are collaborating with FuelCell Energy on fundamental research into a novel technology that uses proprietary carbonate fuel cells to concentrate CO. from large-scale industrial and power plants while generating power, thus lowering the effective capture cost . We are exploring options to conduct a pilot test of this next-generation fuel cell carbon capture solution at our Rotterdam facility . Work like this will play an important role in achieving significant global emissions reductions . Direct air capture – We are working with Global Thermostat to develop the potential of large-scale deployment of direct air capture while continuing to develop novel processes and materials to capture more CO. with less energy. Nature-based solutions – Prairies, grasslands, and other nature-based carbon storage opportunities provide potential opportunities to remove carbon from atmosphere, and we are studying land management practices, restoration methodologies and more to improve carbon sequestration . Life-cycle approach – The Sustainable Energy System Analysis Modeling (SESAME) tool we have been developing with the MIT Energy Initiative can perform full life-cycle assessments for more than 1,000 technology pathways, from primary energy sources to final products or services .72 