GOVERNANCE Good corporate governance creates a business environment conducive to long-term growth. ExxonMobil employs a variety of policies and processes to uphold high ethical standards and promote transparency. Our efforts are underpinned by a board of directors that provides strategic and independent oversight of our corporation s affairs. Members of the ExxonMobil Board of Directors visited its Rotterdam, Netherlands, petrochemical complex and learned about the facility from local employees. GOVERNANCE Ethics and integrity ExxonMobil strives to uphold high ethical standards at all times and in all aspects of our business. Our Standards of Business Conduct set the ethical conduct expectations for our corporation and majority-owned subsidiaries. Employees must annually confirm they have read and comply with the standards to ensure a consistent understanding. ExxonMobil requires all employees, officers, directors and those working on our behalf to comply with all applicable laws. ExxonMobil encourages employees and contractors to ask questions, voice concerns and report any alleged violations of company policies. In addition to our open-door communication procedures, we have several confidential mechanisms for reporting. Employees can submit concerns through a 24-hour phone hotline or a mailing address. We respect confidentiality, subject to legal requirements, and strictly prohibit retaliation against any employee for submitting concerns. A hotline steering committee reviews reports of suspected violations. The board audit committee, comprising four independent, non-employee directors, oversees accounting and internal control matters for the company, including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The board audit committee receives a quarterly report summarizing the steering committee’s findings, including any policy violations. Confirmed violations lead to disciplinary actions, up to and including termination. For more information on the board audit committee, please see the company’s annual proxy statement. ExxonMobil conducts regular internal audits and self-assessments to verify the effectiveness of our control systems and adherence to our Standards of Business Conduct. Our team of internal auditors annually reviews approximately one-third of the corporation’s activities and processes. Internal auditors have access to all operations, records, personnel and properties. We thoroughly investigate any suspected acts of noncompliance with the Standards of Business Conduct. Employees in relevant job functions receive in-person training on antitrust, anti-corruption, anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls soon after entering their positions, as well as every year thereafter. In 2019, nearly 24,000 employees and contractors participated in such training. ExxonMobil regularly conducts employee training, both in-person and computer-based, to help maintain adherence to our Standards of Business Conduct. 2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS ~24K participated in compliance training Nearly 24,000 employees and contractors participated in compliance training. ~1/3 of activities and processes audited ExxonMobil’s team of internal auditors annually reviews approximately one-third of the corporation’s activities and processes. GOVERNANCE Board leadership ExxonMobil’s board of directors provides oversight of the corporation’s affairs. Board members select an independent director to serve as the lead director to help ensure a level of independence in our board leadership. Board members expect the lead director to serve for a minimum of two years. In March 2020, the board clarified and enhanced the role of the presiding director, and renamed the role as lead director. The lead director has broad responsibilities, including: • Calls, chairs and sets the agenda for executive sessions of the non-employee directors; • Provides feedback to the chairman; • Chairs meetings of the board in the absence of the chairman; • In consultation with the chairman, reviews and approves the schedule and agenda for all board meetings and reviews associated materials distributed to the directors; • Reviews committee meeting schedules; • Engages with shareholders, including on ESG-related matters, as appropriate; and • Leads the annual performance evaluation of the board. The lead director also chairs the board affairs committee, which has authorities that include establishing the criteria for director engagement with shareholders, overseeing independent director succession planning, and establishing and maintaining procedures for interested parties to communicate with non-employee directors. The lead director works with the compensation committee to oversee the annual evaluation of the CEO, the communication of resulting feedback to the CEO and the review of CEO succession plans. The board believes shareholder interests are best served through a leadership model combining the roles of chairman of the board and chief executive officer. At year-end 2019, nine of ExxonMobil’s 10 directors were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange guidelines. In 2019, the board of directors met 10 times. ExxonMobil’s directors, on average, attended approximately 96 percent of board and committee meetings during 2019. The ExxonMobil board of directors, as of May 1, 2020. From left: Angela Braly, Kenneth Frazier, Joseph Hooley (joined January 2020), Ursula Burns, Samuel Palmisano, Darren Woods, Douglas Oberhelman, Steven Reinemund (since retired), William Weldon, Susan Avery and Steven Kandarian. Board diversity ExxonMobil believes the strength and effectiveness of the board reflects the balance, experience and diversity of the individual directors; their commitment; and the ability of the directors to work effectively as a group in carrying out their responsibilities. The board affairs committee recommends board of director candidates in accordance with our Guidelines for the Selection of Non-Employee Directors. The board considers director longevity of service and experience of great value, but recognizes the importance of director refreshment. The average tenure of our non-employee directors as of April 2020 was 6.1 years, below the 2019 average of S&P 500 companies of eight years. The board affairs committee looks for highly qualified, non-employee candidates with demonstrated leadership, competency and a commitment to represent the interests of our shareholders. An independent executive search firm helps identify external candidates for consideration who have: • Achieved prominence in their fields; • A diversity of backgrounds, including gender and racial/ethnic diversity; • Experience and demonstrated expertise in managing large, complex organizations such as that of chief executive officers or senior executives of a large company or organization with global operations; • Expertise in financial and other risk management; • Experience on one or more boards of significant public organizations or nonprofit organizations; • Expertise resulting from significant professional or academically based scientific or research activities; and • Experience with cyclical businesses such as commodities. The board affairs committee considers recommendations from shareholders and board directors to help ensure the selection process is collaborative. At year-end 2019, 44 percent of the board’s independent directors were female and/or a racial/ethnic minority. Board risk oversight and sustainability engagement ExxonMobil’s full board of directors provides oversight of key risks to the company’s business. As a whole, the board reviews litigation and other legal matters; political contributions, budget and policy; lobbying costs; developments in climate science and policy; the company’s work to project future global energy supply and demand, including the Outlook for Energy; the Energy & Carbon Summary; stewardship of business performance; and long-term strategic plans. The board receives updates and reviews from internal and external experts on issues of importance to the company. The board oversees a broad spectrum of interrelated risks, with assistance from its committees. This integrated risk management approach facilitates recognition and oversight of important risk interdependencies. Sustainability-related topics typically fall under the purview of the Public Issues and Contributions Committee. The committee oversees operational risks, such as those relating to employee and community safety, health and environmental performance, including actions taken to address climate change-related risks; security matters; and reviews and provides advice on objectives, policies and programs related to political and other contributions. The board, including the Public Issues and Contributions Committee, visits an ExxonMobil operations site each year. These visits enable directors to observe and provide input on safety, operating practices, environmental performance, technology, products, industry and corporate standards, and community engagement. Recently, the independent lead director, along with the full board, provided oversight as management guided the company’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic through a series of actions that helped protect our employees, the communities in which we work and people around the world. To learn more about our COVID-19 response, please see the case study on page 34. 2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 9/10 independent directors At year-end 2019, nine of ExxonMobil’s 10 directors were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange guidelines. 10 board meetings The board of directors met 10 times. 96% board meeting attendance On average, ExxonMobil’s directors attended approximately 96 percent of board and committee meetings. 44% board diversity At year-end 2019, 44 percent of the board’s independent directors were female and/or a racial/ethnic minority. GOVERNANCE Engaging with governments Transparency in payments to governments ExxonMobil recognizes the importance of disclosing relevant payments to governments to reduce corruption, improve government accountability and promote greater economic stability worldwide. We consider the most successful transparency initiatives are those that: • Apply to all foreign, domestic and state-owned companies; • Protect proprietary information to promote commercial competitiveness; • Comply with international trade conventions and treaties; and • Do not violate host government laws or contractual obligations. ExxonMobil is an original member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global organization that promotes the accountable management of oil, natural gas and mineral resources. Companies and governments participating in EITI report payments and revenues, which enables EITI to reconcile any differences between the totals and publish validated total government revenues. We actively participate at the EITI secretariat and country levels. Every year, an ExxonMobil representative serves on the EITI board as either a primary or alternate member. We work with several governments that are EITI members, as well as others considering membership. Policy engagement ExxonMobil believes sound public policy should include input from a variety of stakeholders. We recognize public policy decisions made at all levels of government can have significant effects on our current and future operations. We exercise our right to support policies that promote stable investment for long-term business viability. ExxonMobil works in countries around the world and recognizes the importance of transparency and accountability with each of them. Around the world, we engaged on several issues in 2019 to support responsible economic, energy and environmental policies, including: • Free-market policies: A level playing field within our energy markets is vital if consumers and families are to continue to have access to affordable, reliable and safe energy for homes and businesses. Preferential treatment for certain energy sources undermines the market and raises costs for consumers, families and businesses. • Energy infrastructure: In the United States alone, private investments in oil and natural gas infrastructure could exceed $1.3 trillion by 2035, adding 1 million U.S. jobs and increasing gross domestic product by almost $2 trillion, according to a study conducted by global consulting firm IFC, commissioned by the American Petroleum Institute. These infrastructure projects create jobs and deliver energy to market, safely and efficiently. • Regulatory reform: We support efforts to enhance transparency in our regulatory process, minimizing cost and maximizing efficiency. • Trade: ExxonMobil relies on free and fair trade agreements and policies, including, for example, strong investment protection provisions in the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement (USMCA). Providing a level playing field to import and export goods and services ultimately gives consumers greater choice. • Climate: ExxonMobil believes sound policy should address the dual challenge of reducing the risks of climate change at the lowest societal cost, while balancing increased demand for affordable energy and the need to address poverty, education, health and energy security. We work to encourage collaboration across governments, private companies, consumers and other stakeholders to create meaningful solutions to address climate change. For example, we engaged with the EU Commission, both directly and through trade associations, on the development and adoption of the EU methane strategy. U.S. lobbying expenses In 2019, ExxonMobil’s U.S. federal lobbying expenses totaled $9.75 million, as publicly reported in our filings under the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Further information on the federal issues ExxonMobil lobbied in the United States in 2019 is available on our website. We also recently disclosed on our website a list of trade associations to which we paid $100,000 or more and for which a portion of our payment was reported to be used for lobbying. Political contributions The board of directors has authorized ExxonMobil to make political contributions to candidate committees and other political organizations, as permitted by applicable laws in the United States and Canada. The board annually reviews ExxonMobil’s political contributions, as well as contributions from the company-sponsored Political Action Committee (PAC). Internal audits of the corporation’s public and government affairs activities routinely verify contribution amounts. Eligible employees and shareholders may participate in the U.S. political process by contributing to a voluntary, company sponsored, federal PAC. ExxonMobil reports PAC contributions to the U.S. Federal Election Commission every month. In 2019, we contributed more than $253,000 to state candidates and caucuses in eight U.S. states. During 2019, ExxonMobil’s PAC disbursed more than $719,000 to federal and state candidates and committees.1 Corporate political contributions are subject to an internal review process that requires approval from the chairman. ExxonMobil engages with U.S. lawmakers to support responsible economic, energy and environmental policies. 