Corporate governance ExxonMobil s high standards of business conduct and ethics lay the groundwork for our company s success, now and in the future. 75,000 employees, the company s entire worldwide work force, that are expected to adhere to our high standards of business conduct and ethics every day The methods we employ to attain results are as important as the results themselves. The corpora tion’s directors, officers and employees are expected to observe the highest standards of integrity in the Ethics and integrity A commitment to ethics and integrity is a core aspect of our corporate culture. Our presence in nearly every country of the world requires that employees, officers, directors and those working on our behalf comply with U.S. anti-corruption, anti.trust, anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls laws, as well as laws in other countries applicable to our business. Everyone is expected to uphold the highest ethical standards of business integrity. Standards of Business Conduct Employees are subject to disciplinary action, including termina.tion, for violations of our policies. Employees receive train.ing on our Standards of Business Conduct every four years through business practice reviews, including a detailed review of the company’s anti-trust, anti-corruption, and gifts and entertainment policies. Employees are also required to read the Standards annually and confirm compliance. These Standards set the ethical conduct expectations of our corpora.tion and our majority-owned subsidiaries. While ExxonMobil is not a formal signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, its values represent key elements of our Standards. Standards of Business Conduct Internal audits Regular internal audits and self-assessments help ensure the rigorous implementation of our control systems and the Standards of Business Conduct. ExxonMobil’s internal team of more than 200 auditors annually reviews approximately one-third of the corporation’s operations, conducting detailed assessments of facilities, business units, personnel and records, and thoroughly investigates any noncompliance with the Stan.dards across all functions of the company. Systems and practices for reporting violations As part of our commitment to ethics and high standards of business conduct, we encourage employees and contrac.tors to ask questions, voice concerns and make appropriate suggestions regarding business practices or any suspected vio.lations of law and company policies. In addition to our open-door communication procedures, ExxonMobil has several confidential mechanisms for reporting, including a 24-hour phone number and a mailing address. Employees can also report violations during supervisory reviews. Confidentiality is respected throughout the process, subject to legal require.ments; retaliation against any employee is strictly prohibited. A Hotline Steering Committee comprising security, internal audit, law and human resources personnel reviews reports of suspected violations. The Audit Committee receives a quarterly report that summarizes the Steering Committee’s findings, including any violations or major issues. Violations lead to disciplinary actions, including dismissal. Anti-corruption efforts ExxonMobil is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and anti-corruption compliance wherever we oper.ate. Our Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Guide outlines ExxonMobil’s commitment to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the United Kingdom Bribery Act and global anti-corruption standards in our business relation.ships. It also describes elements of the corporation’s anti-corruption compliance program. ExxonMobil employees and contractors acting on our behalf are prohibited from making payments to or engaging in transactions with government offi.cials to influence improperly the performance of their official duties. Maintaining internal controls and keeping accurate and complete transaction records are required. Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Guide ExxonMobil’s law department conducts comprehensive annual training sessions for employees on anti-trust and anti-corruption compliance. In 2014, approximately 29,000 employees participated in anti-corruption training. Employees in relevant positions receive in-person training within three months of entering their positions and every year thereafter. Other managers and professional employees receive training every two years. The effectiveness of our compliance program is evaluated regularly. Transparency Our efforts to promote revenue transparency have helped fight corruption, improve government accountability and promote greater economic stability around the world. We believe the most successful transparency initiatives are those that ensure each relevant public, private and societal entity is fully engaged and properly represented. In addition, initiatives must respect national sovereignty and local norms and apply to every company in all sectors: public, private, foreign and domestic. ExxonMobil has supported multistakeholder engagement in many countries to achieve revenue transparency for years. We continually monitor and participate in public policy and regulatory developments with respect to transparency initiatives. In 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Com.mission (SEC) published new rules for global government payment reporting as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. A U.S. District Court vacated the initial SEC rules in 2013, as they were deemed to cause potential commercial and competitive harm to U.S. companies. The American Petroleum Institute, of which ExxonMobil is a member, submitted recommendations to the SEC outlining a potential new approach to transpar.ency reporting, focused on government receipts by resource type and production method, that protects companies from disclosing commercially sensitive information. The recommen.dations also give citizens of resource-producing countries the information they need to determine their country’s resource revenues. The SEC has indicated it may release a draft of the revised rules in October 2015.  In July 2013, the European Union (EU) approved a revised accounting directive that mandates government payment reporting. Each of the EU member states has 24 months to implement rules at least as stringent as, but not limited to, the directive. We remain concerned about the inconsistency between the new EU rules and the direction given to the SEC to revise its rules, which could result in multiple and potentially contradictory reporting requirements in different jurisdictions. Such a fragmented approach would not give civil society a means to compile and analyze government revenue or give companies protection from disclosing commercially sensitive information. Nevertheless, we are preparing data gathering, verification and reporting systems and processes to comply with new requirements as the directive is transposed into local law in each EU member state. One important global program that encourages transpar.ency and collaboration among governments, companies, civil society and financial institutions is the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). This initiative is dedicated to strengthening governance by improving transparency and accountability in the extractives sector. Companies and gov.ernments participating in EITI separately report payments and revenues, respectively, allowing EITI to reconcile any differ.ences between the totals and publish validated total govern.ment revenues. ExxonMobil has had an active role in EITI at both the sec.retariat and country levels. An ExxonMobil representative has served on the EITI board as either a primary or alternate member since its inception. In 2013, the program released an expanded EITI Standard outlining how countries can imple.ment the EITI. The Standard requires commitment from all participants as stated in Principle 5: “We underline the impor.tance of transparency by governments and companies in the extractive industries and the need to enhance public financial management and accountability.” Our efforts in 2014 focused on helping the EITI member countries where we operate comply with the expanded application and reporting requirements in its new Stan.dard. ExxonMobil supports the EITI application, validation and implementation processes of 17 countries, and we are working with governments in Australia, Equatorial Guinea, Germany and Mexico, all of which are considering joining EITI. There are currently 48 countries that are compliant members or have been accepted as candidates to begin reporting under the EITI Standard. For more information about this initiative, visit eiti.org. Board of directors Our board of directors provides independent oversight of the corporation’s affairs. All directors are required to stand for election at our annual meeting of shareholders. At year-end 2014, 11 of 12 directors, including the presiding director and all members of the Audit, Compensation, Public Issues and Contributions, and Board Affairs committees, were indepen.dent as defined by New York Stock Exchange guidelines. In 2014, the board met 10 times, and the Public Issues and Con.tributions Committee (PICC) visited XTO Energy operations in Fort Worth, Texas. For more information about that visit, see the Up Close box on the next page. The board’s PICC is charged, among its other duties, with reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s policies, pro.grams and practices with respect to the environment. The committee hears reports from operating units on environ.mental activities and also visits operating sites to observe and comment on current practices. The entire board has ongoing access to environmental and climate information via periodic briefings by employees whose primary expertise is in the area of environmental management and stewardship. Board leadership structure At this time, the board believes the best interests of share.holders are served through a leadership model that combines the roles of chairman of the board and chief executive officer (CEO). With nearly 40 years of service in both domestic and international positions, our current CEO possesses in-depth knowledge of the corporation and the challenges of an evolving energy industry. Additionally, the independent board members select an independent director to serve a minimum of two years as presiding director. For more information about our board structure, visit the corporate governance section of our website. Corporate governance  Board appointment process Maintaining a diverse board — of gender, race, geography, experience and fields of expertise — is important for the company to succeed in a globalized market. The Board Affairs Committee recommends candidates for nomination by the full board of directors based on the Guidelines for the Selection of Non-Employee Directors, and diversity is a key consider.ation. The committee looks for highly qualified non-employee candidates with demonstrated leadership and competency in a particular field and a commitment to represent the interests of our shareholders. Other desirable qualities include: • Financial expertise; • Experience as the CEO or senior executive of a significant company or organization with responsibilities for global operations; • Experience on one or more boards of significant public organizations or NGOs; and • Expertise resulting from significant professional or academically based scientific or research activities. In 2014, the board included female, African-American and international perspectives. Three of the six most recent additions to the board demonstrate gender and/or ethnic diversity. We describe current director qualifications in our proxy statement. 2015 proxy statement  Board committees overview  Executive compensation and strategic advantage At ExxonMobil, we have structured our compensation program carefully in support of long-term shareholder value given the nature of our business: capital-intensive, long investment lead times and the critical importance of risk management. The most senior executives — including Up Close: Board committee visit to XTO Energy The Public Issues and Contributions Committee (PICC) of ExxonMobil’s board of directors oversees the corporation’s con.tributions, public engagement, and safety and environmental performance. Each year, the PICC visits an operations site within ExxonMobil to gain a deeper understanding of the corporation’s activities and practices. In October 2014, the PICC, along with other board members, visited XTO Energy in Fort Worth, Texas. The two-day visit provided the directors with an opportunity to meet with XTO Energy personnel and learn more about unconventional oil and gas operations. The directors also visited XTO Energy’s operations in the Barnett Shale, which included a walking tour of an XTO Energy drilling site, a visit to a hydraulic fracturing site and a tour of a completed well site and compressor station. The directors also had an opportunity to visit with Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price and other civic leaders from charitable organizations that involve XTO Energy personnel. These meet.ings underscored XTO Energy’s strong commitment to the community and demonstrated how ExxonMobil employees are working to improve the quality of life in Fort Worth. the CEO, Named Executive Officers and more than 1,000 The PICC visited XTO Energy operations in Fort Worth, Texas, in October 2014. From left: Randy Cleveland (XTO Energy president), Jack Williams (ExxonMobil senior vice president), Henrietta Fore (board and PICC member), Ken Frazier (board and PICC member), Steven Reinemund (board member and PICC chairman), other executives in the United States — participate in a Larry Faulkner (board member), Andy Swiger (ExxonMobil senior vice president), Jeff Woodbury (vice president, investor relations and secretary) and Keith common compensation program. Carwile (XTO Energy vice president of operations, Fort Worth division).* *This photo was taken outside of any hazardous areas that would require safety goggles. Compensation for executives is highly differentiated, based on a rigorous annual individual performance assessment that takes into account several key factors, including results in the areas of safety, security, health and environmental perfor.mance, corporate governance, diversity, and other goals pertinent to the performance of the company. ExxonMobil executives understand their compensation reflects how effec.tively they manage risk and contribute to operations integrity and sustainable growth in shareholder value. The design of our compensation program strongly aligns with the ExxonMobil business model. The stock-based awards have long holding periods that are not accelerated upon retirement and remain at risk of forfeiture, i.e., 50 percent vests in 10 years from grant date or retirement, whichever is later, and the other 50 percent vests in five years. These design features rein.force expected behaviors and ensure senior executives have a strong financial incentive to focus on the long-term integrity of our operations. This focus, in turn, protects the safety and security of our employees, the communities and environments in which we operate and creates long-term sustainable share.holder value. The 2014 advisory vote on executive compensation received nearly 90 percent of votes “for” the company’s program as outlined. The Compensation Committee of the board contin.ues to support this compensation program, as it more effec.tively achieves the results for our business and is in the best interests of our long-term shareholders. For more information, see ExxonMobil’s 2015 proxy statement. Communicating with directors ExxonMobil’s directors encourage open and transparent communication on corporate citizenship topics. Individuals can email our non-employee directors through the Cor.porate Governance page of our website or send written correspondence in care of the Secretary of the Corporation. ExxonMobil employees work with directors as appropriate in responding to these letters and emails. Directors sometimes request that senior managers meet with shareholders to address particular topics. Shareholder relations We value the constructive dialogue we have with our share.holders on a variety of governance, social and environmental topics throughout the year. In 2014, we had 37 shareholder dialogues with labor, religious organizations, and pension fund and institutional investors. At the corporation’s 2014 annual meeting, shareholders owning approximately 3.56 billion — or nearly 83 percent — of outstanding shares were represented. Shareholders voted on directors, independent auditors, exec.utive compensation and five shareholder proposals. The five proposals represented a decrease from 2013, due in part to our continued engagement with our shareholders. ExxonMobil often receives suggestions from shareholders on ways to improve the company. Management and the board consider these suggestions and engage with shareholders, as appropriate. Our direct engagement with shareholders helps us align on the facts and understand the objectives of their proposals. These dialogues have allowed us to reach common ground with our shareholders in many instances. – – – The Corporate Citizenship Report, Outlook for Energy and ExxonMobil’s website have helped build an understanding of the company’s strategic outlook, performance and risk management practices. In some cases, we publish additional reports as a direct result of our engagement to provide further information about certain issues. In 2014, we published three such reports — two on climate change and one on unconven.tional resources — as a direct result of shareholder dialogue. Climate risk reports Unconventional resources report When agreement on a shareholder proposal is not reached, the proposal and the board’s response and recommendations are published in our proxy statement for review at the annual meeting. No first-year shareholder proposals were voted on at the 2014 meeting. 2015 proxy statement  – – – – – – – – – – – – – Political advocacy and contributions Public policy decisions made at all levels of government can have significant impacts on ExxonMobil’s current and future operations. Sound public policy is best achieved when a variety of informed voices participate in the political process. Accordingly, ExxonMobil exercises its right and obligation to participate in the dialogue on public affairs by supporting policies that promote a stable investment climate for long-term business viability. ExxonMobil, like many U.S. companies, labor unions and NGOs, communicates its positions to the U.S. Congress and state legislatures. Lobbying activities include direct communi.cation with members of Congress, state legislators, adminis.tration and regulatory officials, trade associations and other groups that engage in lobbying activities. We fully comply with registration and reporting regulations related to our lobbying activities. In 2014, the corporation reported total federal lobbying expenses of $12.65 million in its disclosure reports to Congress. ExxonMobil also makes political contributions to candidate committees, political parties, political associations and other political organizations as permitted by applicable laws in the United States and Canada, as well as authorized by the board of directors. The corporation refrains from making political contributions in any country other than the United States and Canada. In 2014, we contributed $307,500 to state legislative and gubernatorial candidates and caucuses in 15 U.S. states. Our Political Activities Policy and Guidelines, as well as an itemized list of our corporate political contributions, are avail.able on our website. Political Activities Policy and Guidelines Eligible employees and retiree shareholders may participate in the U.S. political process by contributing to a company-sponsored political action committee (PAC). Participation in the PAC is completely voluntary. PAC contributions are reported monthly to the Federal Election Commission and are a matter of public record. During the 2013–2014 election cycle, ExxonMobil’s PAC disbursed $1.9 million to federal and state candidates and committees. Based on these contributions, Congressional Quarterly’s Moneyline listed the ExxonMobil PAC No. 34 in size relative to other corporate PACs. The ExxonMobil PAC ranked No. 37 in terms of receipts from employees and retiree shareholders. The rankings are compiled from publicly available data filed with the Federal Election Commission. The political contributions of the corporation, as well as the contributions from the political action committees established by the corporation, are reviewed with the board of directors annually. Corporate political contributions are subject to a strict internal review process that requires approval from the chairman. Procedures for making political contributions are routinely verified during internal audits of the corporation’s public affairs activities. ExxonMobil engaged on a variety of issues last year in support of responsible economic, energy, education and environmental policies. Our positions on a few key issues are described below. • Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling: ExxonMobil supports the global use of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing — safe and successful technologies that have been used for decades — to enable energy development. With the combination of these technologies, energy secu.rity is enhanced through a significant increase in oil and gas production. • Keystone XL pipeline: ExxonMobil fully supports the permitting of the Keystone XL pipeline to bring Canadian oil to U.S. refineries, grow the U.S. economy, provide jobs for workers and increase American energy security with needed infrastructure. • Tax policy: ExxonMobil supports stable tax policies that enable the energy industry to remain competitive in the global marketplace. Energy development benefits our economy, and sound tax policy is needed to encourage investment, job creation and productivity through strong industries. • International trade: ExxonMobil supports free trade policies for all products, including energy products such as oil and natural gas. Robust trade policies benefit consumers and encourage more investment, sustain high-paying jobs and foster economic growth. • Renewable fuel standard (RFS): ExxonMobil opposes fuel mandates such as the RFS because they distort free markets, do not provide claimed environmental benefits and ultimately increase costs to consumers. Transportation fuels should be reliable and affordable to meet consumer needs, consistent with automobile and engine manufacturers’ recommenda.tions, and compatible with transportation fuel infrastructure. • Education: Improving educational performance is vital to the success of our industry and to global competitiveness. We support sensible, forward-looking efforts to raise academic standards and help teachers and students. We support STEM education initiatives as part of a path to competitiveness. In light of the importance and implications of sound public policies, ExxonMobil will continue to engage actively with stakeholders who have an interest in key issues that affect the company and industry. ExxonMobil Perspectives blog About this report About this report This report was created in accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA, the International Asso.ciation of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and the American Petroleum Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010). The majority of these indicators are also consistent with the indicators used by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We continue to receive requests for corporate citizenship-related information from customers, suppliers, investors and external ranking institutions. To help these stakeholders easily access this information, we have mapped relevant IPIECA and GRI indicators on page 74 of this report and on our website. This Corporate Citizenship Report covers ExxonMobil’s operations from Jan. 1, 2014, through Dec. 31, 2014, unless otherwise indicated. The report uses both qualitative descrip.tions and quantitative metrics to explain our policies, pro.grams and practices. For environmental and climate change performance data, units of measure are metric where noted. Financial information is reported in U.S. dollars. Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso and XTO Energy. For convenience and simplicity, those terms (and terms such as corporation, company, our, we, us and its) are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. ExxonMobil includes the above-mentioned operations as part of our company performance data, as seen on pages 71–73. The term “project” as used in this publication can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency report. Continual improvement External feedback on our report is a key component of our engagement strategy and commitment to improve our Corporate Citizenship Report. Management reviews all comments, which, in many instances, are incorporated into the materiality assessment and report content. We welcome all feedback on this 2014 report. For additional information, to view previous reports or to provide comments, visit exxonmobil.com/citizenship or contact: Editor, Corporate Citizenship Report Exxon Mobil Corporation 5959 Las Colinas Blvd. Irving, Texas 75039 citizenship@exxonmobil.com Assurance Third-party assurance provides an independent evaluation of how well we report our corporate citizenship information and gives our reporting processes additional integrity. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. conducts an annual third-party assurance of ExxonMobil’s safety, health and environmental reporting system. For the full assurance statement, see page 75. Cautionary note Statements regarding future events and conditions in this pub.lication are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including energy demand growth and supply mix; demo.graphic changes; project plans, results, costs and capacities; the impact of new technology; future emission reductions and efficiency gains; and future capital expenditures may differ materially due to changes in oil and gas prices and other fac.tors affecting supply and demand for oil, gas and petrochem.icals; changes in government policy and regulation; future technological developments; the occurrence and duration of economic recessions; the outcome of commercial nego.tiations; unexpected technical and operating difficulties; and other factors discussed in this publication and in Item 1A of ExxonMobil’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K. These factors are also set forth under the heading “Factors Affecting Future Results” on the Investors page of ExxonMobil’s website. Incorporating stakeholder feedback We spoke with a variety of stakeholders — including represen.tatives from NGOs, academia, investors, industry experts and employees — about our 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report. We have identified several recurring comments from stake.holders and show where we have incorporated changes within this report. Show more data and use consistent time periods for trends. Where possible, we have included 10 years of data in this report as compared with four in past reports, and we have used the same reference year for trends wherever possible. Tell more human impact stories. Two of our case studies this year focus on human impact: impacts on residents in Papua New Guinea and impacts on employees and community members in areas affected by malaria and Ebola around the world. We also include additional human impact stories in Up Close boxes throughout the report. Quantify impacts of community investment programs. Our community and social impact chapter includes more quantifiable impacts of our three signature programs. Many of our global stories online also include quantifiable impacts of community investments. Global stories Talk more transparently about challenges. On pages 9 and 10, we have included a Q&A with Ken Cohen, vice president of public and government affairs, in which he discusses the key sustainability challenges the company is facing on topics that interest our stakeholders. exxonmobil.com/citizenship 