SOCIAL Around the world, ExxonMobil aims to be a preferred business partner, neighbor, employer and supplier. We maintain a corporate-wide commitment to safeguarding the health and security of our employees and the public, responsibly managing our social impacts, and upholding respect for human rights in our operations. ExxonMobil employees worked with strategic partners and contractors from around the world to build the Floating Production Storage and Offloading platform (FPSO) Liza Destiny in Singapore and deliver it offshore Guyana. SOCIAL Safety ExxonMobil remains focused on achieving a work environment where Nobody Gets Hurt. Safety is a core value at ExxonMobil. We operate in a manner that helps protect our employees, contractors, customers and the communities where we operate. Our approach to safety includes identifying possible risks, implementing measures to prevent potential incidents, and educating employees and contractors about unsafe behaviors. For 27 years, our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) has established a set of worldwide expectations for addressing risks inherent to our business, including safety risks. Our work procedures embed OIMS into our everyday work processes at all levels of the organization. Personnel safety From a Lost-Time Incident Rate (LTIR) perspective, our workforce remains significantly safer than the industry as a whole. XTO Energy, our unconventional exploration and production unit, continued its year-on-year improvement trend and achieved its best-ever LTIR results in 2019. Our Fuels & Lubricants and Chemical businesses continue to outperform their respective industry benchmarks. In 2019, we enhanced our focus on defining consistent Life Saving Actions, or safeguards, for higher-consequence work associated with lifting and rigging, and with work around mobile equipment. These actions are applicable to day-to-day activities where ExxonMobil and industry experience has shown tragic personnel safety outcomes still occur. We continually monitor operations to help keep our employees safe and secure. We work with our employees and contractors to understand Life Saving Actions for these higher-consequence activities and how to verify critical, effective safeguards are in place before the work begins and during execution. With our focus on eliminating the most serious incidents, we extended a steady multiyear improvement trend in 2019, while also achieving a historically low rate of high-consequence injuries. Process safety ExxonMobil has an unwavering commitment to helping protect our people, the community and the environment by seeking to manage the risks inherent to our operations. Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) serves as the foundation for managing process safety risks and establishes clear process safety expectations, which are distributed throughout our management systems. The safeguards needed to protect against process safety risks are built into OIMS and integral to the way our facilities are designed, operated and maintained. We verify and rigorously maintain these safeguards to prevent or mitigate the consequences of a process safety event. We collaborate with our peers and industry associations to share lessons learned. For example, we are actively engaged in the Advancing Process Safety initiative, a collaborative effort between the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers and the American Petroleum Institute. The initiative aims to improve process safety performance across industry by sharing experiences and knowledge about process safety events, hazard identification metrics and industry-proven practices. Emergency preparedness ExxonMobil is prepared to respond to a wide array of emergency events, including natural disasters, pandemics and operational incidents. Regardless of the size, severity or cause of an event, each ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to trained responders and resources. Cross-functional teams develop and practice emergency response tactics through incident management teams and emergency support groups around the world. This preparation enables ExxonMobil’s global operations to provide a robust response in emergency situations to help protect the safety of people and the environment. In 2019, we carried out a Regional Response Team exercise in Egypt to demonstrate the readiness to plan and execute real-time field deployments effectively, based on the response actions included in the Egyptian National Oil Spill Contingency Plan. With more than 150 participants representing 27 countries, the five-day exercise strengthened alignment on response objectives between key stakeholders and the Regional Response Team. 2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Lost-time incident rate* Incidents per 200,000 work hours 0.20 0.15 0.10 American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark 0.05 ExxonMobil workforce 0 ExxonMobil’s 2019 total workforce (employees and contractors) lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.033, similar to our performance in 2018. In 2019, our employee total lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.031 and our contractor lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.034. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, 2017 2018 2019 ExxonMobil continues to be among the industry leaders in safety performance. *Incidents include injuries and illnesses. We base our safety data on information available at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors. Depending on the reporting year, around 2 to 12 percent of the lost-time incidents are illness-related. ~80% improvement in lost-time incident rate since 2000 Since 2000, we have achieved a nearly 80 percent improvement in our workforce lost-time incident rate. 27 years of OIMS For 27 years, our Operations Integrity Management System has established a set of worldwide expectations for addressing risks inherent to our business, including safety risks. SOCIAL Healthy and engaged workforce Worksite health and wellness The success of ExxonMobil’s operations depends on a healthy and competent workforce. Our health policy communicates corporate expectations for identifying and managing health risks related to our operations. In each country, we develop workplace health programs that consider local health care systems and health needs. Improvements in worker health can increase quality of life and employee productivity. ExxonMobil supports voluntary health programs that promote employee well-being while reducing health-plan costs. Through our Culture of Health program, we provide employees with health education, disease management assistance, resilience training and fitness programs. We have implemented the Culture of Health program in 30 countries, and we continue to look for new opportunities to expand the program’s reach. We have recently added programs in Canada, Chad, Colombia, Equatorial Guinea, France, Germany, Guam and New Caledonia. When the COVID-19 pandemic emerged in early 2020, our emergency preparedness and response procedures were triggered at the country, regional and facility levels, building on lessons learned from SARS, Pandemic Flu, MERS and Ebola. Our preventive and mitigation safeguards, combined with coordinated internal communications, helped protect the health and safety of our workers and their dependents. Where appropriate, we implemented remote-work policies while our facilities were deep cleaned and reconfigured to enable proper social distancing. Our measures were continually refined as more information about the virus was identified, in consultation with internal and external health experts. In collaboration with the Alberta Health Services, we conducted on-site COVID-19 testing at our Kearl operations in Canada. Diversity and inclusion Diversity of thought, ideas, perspectives, skill, knowledge and culture makes ExxonMobil more innovative, resilient and better able to navigate the complex and changing global energy business. Creating an inclusive workplace enables our global employees to bring their unique perspectives to help achieve our business objectives. Our global workforce reflects the local communities and cultures where we operate. Our objectives are to seek and hire talented, dedicated employees and give them opportunities to learn, grow and succeed. The result is a diverse and multifaceted employee base representing different perspectives and ideas. We consider and monitor diversity through all stages of employment, including recruitment, training and development of our employees. For example, in 2019, 36 percent of our campus engineering hires in the United States were women, and 40 percent were minorities. Both rates are higher than the average annual percentage of female engineering graduates and minority engineering graduates, respectively. Over the past decade, 39 percent of our global management, professional and technical hires were female, and 31 percent of our U.S. management, professional and technical hires were minorities. In 2019, 22 percent of ExxonMobil’s global executive employee population were women, and 18 percent of our U.S. executives were minorities. 2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Culture of Health program in 30 countries We have implemented the Culture of Health program in 30 countries, and we continue to look for new opportunities to expand the program’s reach. Representation of women executives increased 69% since 2009 In 2019, 22 percent of ExxonMobil’s executives were women vs. 13 percent in 2009. Representation of minority executives in the U.S. increased 80% since 2009 In 2019, 18 percent of ExxonMobil’s U.S. executives were minorities vs. 10 percent in 2009. More than 30 years of service Career employees at ExxonMobil average more than 30 years of service. ExxonMobil actively fosters a productive work environment where individual and cultural differences are respected and valued, and where all employees are encouraged to contribute fully to achieving business results. Our Global Diversity Framework and Standards of Business Conduct govern ExxonMobil employment practices, including policies for recruitment, hiring, promotions and salary administration. The standards support our commitment to provide equal employment opportunities, prohibit discrimination in the workplace and align with applicable laws in the countries where we operate. We use a series of training programs and tools to help our employees understand cultural sensitivities across a diverse workforce. We do not tolerate harassment in any form, and violators of this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Employee recruitment and retention ExxonMobil prioritizes the development of employees. We begin with recruiting exceptional talent and continue with individually planned assignments and experiences that lead to broad skill development and a deep understanding of our businesses. This career-oriented, tailored approach results in an average length of service of more than 30 years for career employees. It also facilitates development of the next generation of leaders from within the company. ExxonMobil invests in people for a long-term career. Through a combination of work assignments, on-the-job experiences, and focused training and education, employees acquire the necessary skills and competencies to take on increasing levels of responsibility and job complexity. We have invested an average of $93 million per year on training since 2015. In 2019, more than 60,000 personnel completed voluntary training courses. We recruit exceptional people and give them personalized career plans and unique experiences, which leads to an average length of service of more than 30 years for career employees. SOCIAL Human rights ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights as a fundamental principle in our operations, reinforced through training and integrated into our policies and practices. Our business presence should have a positive influence on the people in the communities where we operate. Our practices reflect the spirit and intent of the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and are guided by elements of the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. ExxonMobil conducts human rights training to help build an understanding of human rights and an awareness of potential human rights risks. More than 1,800 employees in applicable positions and locations across 49 countries have completed the training since 2015. We use a risk screening tool to assess potential human rights impacts associated with our activities, and we integrate it with our Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment and Management process so risks are appropriately assessed, mitigated and tracked. Our processes for stakeholder engagement and grievance management support our integrated approach to human rights due diligence. Through our grievance management process, for example, we help provide effective, accessible and culturally appropriate channels for individuals or communities to raise concerns, whether through community engagements, electronic or in-person submission, or third parties such as civil society organizations or nongovernmental organizations. We then work to manage, respond to and, ideally, resolve issues in a timely manner, as appropriate. Our efforts to manage human rights issues reflect evolving international initiatives. We are actively involved with IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for advancing environmental and social issues, to monitor business and human rights trends. Our engagement also includes developing and sharing practices on human rights due diligence and human rights supply chain management from the oil and natural gas industry and other extractive industries. In 2019, ExxonMobil contributed to the new edition of the Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry, jointly developed by IPIECA, the American Petroleum Institute, and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers. We were actively engaged in the development of the expanded social performance section, which embeds human rights considerations throughout the sustainability reporting guidance. Since 2016, we have helped train nearly 29,000 security providers on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Security and human rights ExxonMobil’s Statement of Principles on Security and Human Rights establishes the expectation that all business units provide security for personnel, facilities and operations in a manner that respects human rights. The framework guides our majority-owned operating affiliates on how to manage interactions with both host government-assigned security and private security providers. It also provides guidance for documenting allegations of human rights abuse by public or private security personnel and any incidents of inappropriate physical force used by security providers in the protection of company assets. Depending on the nature of an incident, our procedures include reporting to host governments. Where appropriate, our standard security services contracts include provisions requiring that personnel receive training to understand the expectations and their responsibilities with respect to the following: • ExxonMobil’s Statement of Principles on Security and Human Rights • Local laws and regulations • Provisions of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights • International Labour Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • U.N. Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials • U.N. Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials These standard security services contract provisions require contractors to monitor, report and investigate allegations of credible human rights abuse. Contractors are required to immediately remove any of their personnel credibly alleged to have committed a human rights abuse. Since 2016, we have helped train nearly 29,000 security providers on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, a multi-stakeholder initiative that focuses on ways to maintain the safety and security of operations while respecting human rights. Using the Voluntary Principles to train on-the-ground security personnel can help reduce human rights risks. In some instances, host governments require ExxonMobil to engage their security forces. In these cases, we have signed agreements with governments that include expectations for respecting human rights consistent with the Voluntary Principles, as well as compliance with relevant local, U.N. and other security-related frameworks. We have agreements in place in Chad, Colombia, Indonesia, Mozambique and Papua New Guinea. We developed targeted training modules in 2019 for ExxonMobil personnel in global affiliates where host government security forces are engaged. The training focuses on our expectations for host government security deployment, including identifying the risks of security-related human rights impacts in communities. Human rights in the supply chain ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights, and we expect the same of our suppliers. Our Supplier Expectations include our expectations of suppliers, vendors and contractors with regards to human rights. These expectations include references to key international human rights frameworks, such as the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We reiterate our expectations on human rights to our suppliers through an annual letter to suppliers. We also comply with all relevant laws and regulations regarding human rights. For example, in compliance with the U.K. Modern Slavery Act 2015, we prepare an annual slavery and human trafficking statement. Also, our annual conflict minerals filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission provides disclosures regarding supply sources of gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum. Additionally, since 2016, more than 300 procurement employees have received human rights awareness training, tailored to procurement professionals, to help improve their understanding of human rights in the supply chain. For information on supply chain management, including supplier diversity, please visit our website. 2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS ~29K trained on Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights since 2016 We have helped train nearly 29,000 security providers on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights to reduce human rights risks associated with security activities in communities. Human rights training in 49 countries since 2015 Since 2015, more than 1,800 employees in applicable positions and locations across 49 countries have completed our human rights training module. Utilized a risk screening tool We use a risk screening tool prior to conducting broader Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessments to assess potential human rights impacts. SOCIAL Community investments ExxonMobil works closely with the communities where we operate to identify and invest in initiatives that help support their needs. We collaborate with governments and local stakeholders to invest in programs that promote local economic growth and help improve social conditions. Local economic growth and development ExxonMobil adds economic value to countries where we operate by employing and training local personnel and supporting local suppliers. We also build capacity of local suppliers to increase their capabilities and work to create a competitive local industrial base. We develop a local content plan specific to each country or area to establish long-term economic benefits. When we hire local employees, they may receive additional training to develop technical and leadership skills, improving their overall employability. Our development program includes training on relevant technical and vocational skills, health and safety, environmental protection, management skills and business conduct. For example, providing opportunities for local hiring and development is a vital part of our commitment to enhancing the economic and social benefits associated with our activities in Guyana. We apply proven training curriculums, industry best practices and leading technology to support local workforce development. In 2019, our affiliate’s activities in Guyana increased the total workforce to more than 3,400 employees and contractors, of which nearly 1,900 are Guyanese. Our goal is to provide Guyanese personnel with technical and professional skills needed for existing and future operations. ExxonMobil and our contractors provided more than 250,000 hours of training to individuals working on our projects in Guyana in 2019. 2019 workforce composition Employees locally hired inEmployees locally hired supervisory or managerial positions ANGOLA 93% 83% CHAD 94% 87% EQUATORIAL GUINEA 82% 48% GUYANA 58% 03% INDONESIA 97% 91% MALAYSIA 97% 87% NIGERIA 94% 88% PAPUA NEW GUINEA 69% 18% In December 2019, ExxonMobil announced oil production had started from the Liza field offshore Guyana, a first for the country of 750,000 people. At year-end 2019, more than 50 percent of ExxonMobil’s employees in Guyana were Guyanese. Social investments 2019 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Our social investments address key needs, such as access to health care, disaster relief, education and economic development. In 2019, we contributed $253 million to communities around the world, which includes donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, the ExxonMobil Foundation, employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift and volunteer programs, and disaster relief. For example, in 2019, when Cyclones Idai and Kenneth impacted Mozambique, we provided $400,000 in emergency assistance to support ongoing relief and recovery efforts, including the provision of food and shelter in affected communities. We are also actively involved in worldwide support of response efforts related to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a company with operations around the world, our efforts have ranged from donating personal protective equipment and supporting local food banks, to reconfiguring our own operations to produce hand sanitizer. Learn more in our COVID-19 case study on page 34. Our employees are passionate about engaging in their communities, and we encourage them to contribute to the communities where they live and work. Through our volunteer involvement program in the United States, we provide a $500 donation to the employee’s or retiree’s charity of choice for every 20 hours a volunteer works, up to four times per year. Many of our affiliates have similar volunteer programs. More than 17,000 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and their families volunteered approximately 443,000 hours at 3,700 charitable organizations in 28 countries in 2019. More than 4,100 employees and retirees donated more than $18 million to 825 U.S. colleges and universities, as well as minority scholarship programs. The ExxonMobil Foundation matched that amount with more than $33.6 million in 2019. For more information on our work with local communities, please visit our website. >$1.3B contributed to education since 2000 Since 2000, we have contributed more than $1.3 billion to education programs around the world, including approximately $59 million in 2019. >125M people reached through malaria programs Since 2000, more than 125 million people have benefited from ExxonMobil-supported programs that focus on malaria research, education and treatment. >$120M invested in women’s economic opportunities Since 2005, we have invested more than $120 million to support women in more than 90 countries to fulfill their economic potential and drive economic change in their communities. 160K gallons of hand sanitizer In 2020, as part of our work to support the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we temporarily reconfigured manufacturing operations in Louisiana to enable us to produce up to 160,000 gallons of hand sanitizer, which was donated to frontline workers and military personnel. SOCIAL 2019 community investments In 2019, ExxonMobil contributed $253 million to communities around the world.* Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift and volunteer programs. Investments by focus area $143M $61M $6M $5M $3M $11M $7M Pre college Arts & culture educationInvestments by geographic region $18.3M Canada $117.4M United States $3.7M Central/ South America $73.7M Europe $30.2M Africa/Middle East $9.2M Asia Pacific   capital and operating expenditures. 