Chairman’s letterI’m pleased to share with you ExxonMobil’s 2017 Sustainability Report. For more than 135 years, ExxonMobil has strived to meet society’s evolving needs. We work to meet growing demands for energy and chemical products while advancing other priorities such as economic growth, environmental protection, education, poverty reduction, health, security and human rights. I’m proud of the role we play in raising living standards. Millions of people have escaped extreme poverty in the last two decades due in part to increased access to energy.The energy we produce is important. So is the way we produce it.  The men and women of ExxonMobil are focused on 
meeting society’s dual challenge – meeting energy needs while also minimizing the environmental impacts of energy use, including the risks of climate change. It’s one of society’s largest and most complex challenges and requires thoughtful engagement at all levels, focusing on practical and affordable solutions that work at the necessary scale.At ExxonMobil, we work extensively to reduce emissions 
and other environmental impacts of energy use in our operations and through the products we sell. We’re also a leader in researching and developing energy technologies, like algae biofuels and carbon capture, utilization and storage, that could potentially play a role in helping mitigate the risks of climate change.Another key sustainability focus is health. We directly impact this through our commitment to the safety of our workers and members of communities where we work. 
We continue to make good progress toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. In 2017, we had the fewest recordable injuries in our company’s history. In the communities where we operate, we routinely dialogue with local officials responsible for emergency response, health, safety and environmental protection.Our commitment to communities extends well beyond health and safety. We work to enhance economic development by hiring and training qualified local workers and making local investments.At ExxonMobil we are committed to creating long-term shareholder value by making a positive contribution to society. I hope you find this report helpful in understanding our approach. We welcome your feedback at exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport.Darren Woods
Chairman and CEO32017 Sustainability Report HighlightsExxonMobil and sustainabilityExxonMobil’s primary responsibility is to produce the energy and products the world needs in a responsible manner. Our approach to sustainability focuses on six key areas:•	Corporate governance•	Safety, health and the workplace•	Managing the risks of climate change•	Environmental performance•	Community engagement and human rights•	Local development and supply chain management
For an in-depth analysis of our financial performance and investment decisions, see our 2017 Digital Annual Report. For information on ExxonMobil’s view of global energy demand and supply through 2040, visit the Outlook for Energy.ExxonMobil and sustainabilityGlobal operationsUpstream: We are one of the largest producers of oil and 
gas, with an active oil and gas presence in 38 countries where we explore, develop, produce and market hydrocarbons.Downstream: We are one of the largest integrated refiners and manufacturers of fuels and lube basestocks, as well as a leading manufacturer of petroleum products and finished lubricants. We have refining and lubricant blending facilities 
in 25 countries.Chemical: ExxonMobil is one of the world’s largest chemical companies, and has operations in 16 countries and a unique portfolio of high-performance products. Crude oil & natural gasFeedstocksFeedstocksChemicalProductionRefining & SupplyBasic Chemicals • Intermediates • SyntheticsPlastics & Resins • Speciality Elastomers & ButylOil • Natural Gas • Natural Gas LiquidsGasoline • Diesel • Fuel Oil • Jet Fuel Lubricants • Asphalt • Chemical Feedstocks25.4M5.5Mbarrels of petroleum product sales per day 24.0Moil-equivalent barrels of net oil 
and gas production per day 1tonnes of chemical primeproduct sales 21 Natural gas converted to oil-equivalent barrels using 6 million cubic feet per 1,000 barrels.2 Sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.5External Sustainability Advisory Panel statementLinking sustainability to corporate strategyClimate change, sustainable development and human rights are among the most pressing challenges facing society. Companies are responding by aligning their core business strategy around global initiatives that seek to address these trends — the Paris Agreement, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). We recognize ExxonMobil’s progress in responding to these international issues and goals. We hope that the company will take further steps to demonstrate how climate change, the SDGs, human rights and other sustainability-related challenges link directly with corporate investments and programs central to its long-term business strategy. We also recommend that the sustainability report include more information on how the company is aligning its long-term business strategy and sustainability strategy, along with the risks and opportunities created by these issues.Communicating the urgency of climate changeWe commend ExxonMobil for the significant steps the company has taken over the past year to address climate change. Publication of the Energy and Carbon Summary in early 2018 is a crucial step demonstrating the company’s progress in managing climate risk and responding to shareholder concerns. Continued investment in emerging energy technology research as well as dedicated efforts to reduce methane emissions are other areas of notable progress, alongside the company’s decision to participate in collective action platforms such as the Climate Leadership Council and global Methane Guiding Principles, and its public support for the Paris Agreement. The company’s recent announcement of efforts to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions from flaring and methane emissions through quantified reductions of 25 percent and 15 percent respectively, by 2020, is a significant step forward.Due to the possible negative impacts climate change poses to business operations, human rights and economic development around the world, we urge further integration of climate change into the core of ExxonMobil’s business strategy. This includes through continued operational upgrades and near- and long-term research and product development programs.Perhaps most important, we encourage ExxonMobil to lead by example and be bold in its interaction with governments, industry, academic institutions and civil society organizations in the development of public policies that reduce the threat of climate change. Measuring performance and impactDisclosure of future targets in addition to current performance data is becoming standard practice in corporate sustainability reporting. There is a growing movement where companies are publicly articulating “science-based targets” that align with current climate science. ExxonMobil’s report thoroughly discloses current and past performance data. As mentioned, we value the recent announcement of forward-looking greenhouse gas reduction measures and would suggest a similar approach for other material issues. Disclosure of the company’s most material and salient internal goals provides opportunity for external stakeholders to independently assess the company’s strategy and future performance.Stronger statements can also be added on the outcomes or impacts arising from the company’s programs. Corporate investments and other performance data should be coupled directly with tangible impacts and outcomes that demonstrate ExxonMobil’s impact on society. For example, the report discusses the amount of capital invested in developing energy solutions with lower emissions. Emphasis could be added on the actual or potential impact of these investments for society. Describing a specific successful technology that resulted, or could result, from this investment could be more compelling than disclosing financial investment data alone. Incorporating these outcomes creates a more engaging report that demonstrates the types of impacts the company is creating for the environment, people and industry. With respect to human rights, we recommend that the company be bold in stating its objective of no harm. Through many rigorous due diligence processes, ExxonMobil’s approach to human rights, for example, closely aligns with the UNGPs. Greater specificity about practices and performance in this area would help the company align its reporting more effectively with societal and industry expectations of best practices. Measuring the impact on human rights quantitatively is difficult. Nevertheless, the company is already assessing impacts on staff and on communities in its areas of operation. We encourage it to expand efforts through further identification of potential adverse impacts, explaining processes used to identify these, and describing steps taken to mitigate them.Engaging strategically with stakeholdersCompanies like ExxonMobil have to understand and balance the needs of numerous individual and institutional stakeholders across different value chains and a wide range of cultures, regulations and operating environments. Some relationships are indirect and simple, while others are very complex. ExxonMobil’s current disclosure around stakeholder engagement is not sufficiently specific, which can create the perception that the company is not fully disclosing engagement activities. We recommend that ExxonMobil describe its stakeholders and their priorities more explicitly, and how the company has addressed their concerns. We also recommend that ExxonMobil describe limitations encountered with stakeholder interactions in countries where open consultation is difficult. We appreciate that the company publishes a list of its political contributions and philanthropic giving to non-lobbying and nonprofit organizations. In the future, we would like to see more about the relationship between its contributions and its specific sustainability goals and/or programs. Concluding remarksWe recognize the progress that ExxonMobil has made over the past year in publicly addressing complex sustainability issues and call on the company to drive this agenda forward, both through business activities and value chains, as well as through strategic partnerships with others. We encourage the company and its executives to be even more bold and transparent in all aspects of sustainability performance. ExxonMobil is a global leader that others follow in many areas of the energy industry. We believe that taking an increasingly ambitious, evidence-based and technologically innovative position on sustainability issues will provide the company with the opportunity to champion more substantial sustainability efforts worldwide, and to enhance long-term shareholder value.Sincerely,Craig Benson, Mark Cohen, Frank Loy, Jane Nelson, 
Salil TripathiJune 2018For the last 10 years, the External Sustainability Advisory Panel has commented on ExxonMobil’s sustainability reporting and transparency. In that time, the company has acted on many of our recommendations and we are encouraged by the progress. This year, the company has transitioned from a corporate citizenship report to a sustainability report, which connotes a greater sense of connectedness to global issues and deeper integration with corporate strategy. During our engagement period in 2017-2018, we had the opportunity to observe increased executive engagement in sustainability. Through meetings with the Chairman and CEO, and other senior business leaders in executive, operational and functional roles, 
we were able to engage the company on transparency, policy and strategy.  This letter represents our individual and collective views on the quality and progress made in ExxonMobil’s sustainability reporting and transparency. In recognition of our efforts, ExxonMobil provided a donation on behalf of the panelists to nonprofit organizations of our choice and reimbursed relevant travel expenses. This letter is not an official endorsement of ExxonMobil’s sustainability report, 
the corporation, or its policies and strategies.For past panel feedback statements, visit:exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport62017 Sustainability Report HighlightsExternal Sustainability Advisory Panel statementExternal Sustainability Advisory PanelExxonMobil's External Sustainability Advisory Panel is composed of academics, nongovernmental organization representatives and former government employees who have expertise in a variety of environmental, social and governance topics. Craig Benson
Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science
University of VirginiaMark Cohen
Professor of Management and Law
Vanderbilt University Owen Graduate School of ManagementFrank Loy
Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs
U.S. Department of StateJane Nelson
Director of Corporate Responsibility Initiative
Harvard University Kennedy School of Government Salil Tripathi
Senior Adviser, Global Issues 
Institute for Human Rights and BusinessThe External Sustainability Advisory Panel met with Chairman and CEO Darren Woods at ExxonMobil headquarters in Irving, Texas in May 2018. From the left: Frank Loy, Salil Tripathi, Jane Nelson, Darren Woods, Craig Benson and Mark Cohen.772017 Sustainability Report HighlightsSDG Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all When working in a community, we add economic and social value by creating local jobs, supporting local supplier development and providing opportunities through training 
and investments. We employ nearly 70,000 people around 
the world.Addressing the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aim to make significant progress on global economic, social and environmental challenges by 2030. While ExxonMobil contributes to certain aspects of all 17 SDGs, the following eight represent those most relevant to ExxonMobil’s sustainability focus areas.Learn more about how ExxonMobil contributes to the UN SDGs at exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport.SDG Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all We invest in education and teacher development programs, placing a specific emphasis on encouraging students to pursue careers in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields. Since 2000, we have contributed more than $1.25 billion to education programs around the world. SDG Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patternsExxonMobil is working to make our operations more efficient while also helping our customers to reduce their emissions. These solutions include creating advanced plastics and other materials that can be used in a range of consumer products to reduce weight and improve fuel efficiency, and by developing premium, high-efficiency fuels and lubricants.SDG Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girlsSince 2005, ExxonMobil has invested $111 million in 
programs that develop female entrepreneurs and business leaders and improve women’s ability to advance. Internally, ExxonMobil promotes leadership development for women during all aspects of their careers, including through training and mentoring.SDG Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impactsMeeting the world’s growing energy demand while simultaneously reducing environmental impacts, including the risks of climate change, is one of society’s most pressing challenges. We are focused on mitigating emissions in our operations, developing technology solutions, providing solutions that reduce emissions for our customers and engaging on climate change policy. We are a founding member of the Climate Leadership Council, which advocates for a revenue-neutral carbon tax and aligns closely with our long-standing principles. In 2018, we joined the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a voluntary initiative representing 13 of the world’s largest oil and gas producers working towards solutions to mitigate the risks of climate change.SDG Goal 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhereUnited Nations data shows a strong correlation between energy use and improved standards of living. ExxonMobil is working to help lift people out of poverty around the world by expanding access to affordable and versatile energy supplies. In addition, ExxonMobil collaborates with host governments and other local stakeholders to implement community investments that improve health and education, and help build and sustain local economic growth. SDG Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for allExxonMobil delivers reliable and affordable energy that 
helps fuel economic activity and improve standards of living. Natural gas, for example, supplies 22 percent of the world’s energy and has a lower carbon footprint than other traditional energy sources. In addition, ExxonMobil is researching lower-emission technologies, such as algae biofuels and advanced carbon capture. We have invested more than $9 billion since 2000 on lower-emission energy solutions.SDG Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all agesExxonMobil supports the health, safety and well-being of our employees while also making investments to support community health systems and programs. For example, since 2001, we have funded antimalarial programs that have reached more than 125 million people. Another example is our U.S.-based Culture of Health program that provides health education, nutrition and fitness programs that support the well-being of our employees. We are expanding the program to other countries as well.