SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE WORKPLACE Workers supporting operations at a liquefied natural gas train in Qatar. Thousands of contractors support our operations and those of joint ventures every day. We encourage collaborative efforts regarding safety. Highlighting a Decade of Performance Our priorities since 2002 Continually improve workforce safety and health performance Brought our lost-time incident rate from 0.086 in 2002 to 0.045 in 2012 Maintain and continuously improve emergency response preparedness Conducted multiple emergency response drills each year at every level of the organization Monitor and address emerging community health issues Established a new infectious disease committee in 2011 Develop a management program for product responsibility Started a Life-Cycle Analysis Center of Expertise at our Baytown, Texas, facility in 2010 Attract and retain top talent Hired more than 26,000 professional employees worldwide since 2002 Retained a world-class workforce that averages more than 15 years of company service Build a diverse workforce by ethnicity, gender and region Built our current workforce, of which nearly 59 percent is located outside the United States, 28 percent represent females and 24 percent represent U.S. minorities Our continued responsibilities Strive toward a workplace where Nobody Gets Hurt Implement comprehensive risk management and identification Focus on effective process safety management Conduct life-cycle assessments of chemical and lubricant products Attract, develop and retain a talented and diverse workforce Enhance training programs to help our employees excel at each stage of their careers Ongoing Completed SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE WORKPLACE ExxonMobil’s commitment to excellence in protecting the safety, security and health of our employees, our contractors and the communities where we work is a core value — one that shapes decision-making at every level. Safety, Security higher-risk activities, we will better protect our and Health Management workforce from unacceptable risks. Our analysis Excellence in safety, security and health in the of safety incidents in the past several years has workplace is a core value for our company. Our led us to embrace the importance of recognizing Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) and reacting to the potential and actual outcomes puts our safety commitment into action. Every of an incident. Through careful analysis, we ExxonMobil employee and contractor accepts learned that a subset of incidents, usually safety, security and health as job requirements, associated with higher-risk activities, has the where workers take ownership and accountability for their own and each other’s personal safety. During 2012, we began developing content for a new training experience called the OIMS Leadership Academy. The training is aimed at enhancing the OIMS leadership skills of middle-level line managers. We plan to pilot this training in mid-2013. We are rolling out a new leadership development program focused on enhancing the ability of our leaders to more effectively communicate about safety performance, incidents, challenges and successes. This program will help positively impact behavior and performance and make Total Recordable Incident Rate1 (incidents per 200,000 work hours) ExxonMobil employees ExxonMobil contractors American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry employee benchmark 1.2 0.6 whether working at a desk, on an oil platform, in potential to become serious injuries or fatalities. safety more personal. a refinery or at any of our facilities. This awareness enables teams to better focus efforts on those activities. In October 2012, the National Safety Council (NSC) Personnel safety announced that ExxonMobil had been awarded In 2012, we moved closer to our goal of Nobody The journey to safety excellence requires us to the 2013 Green Cross for Safety® medal for our Gets Hurt. We have reduced our workforce lost-seek opportunities to continuously improve our comprehensive commitment to safety excellence. Year 20052006200720082009201020112012 Lost-Time Incident Rate1 time incident rate by an average of 4 percent per approaches to the prevention of injuries and Presented annually, NSC awards the Green Cross year since 2002 and by 42 percent from 2011 illnesses. In this regard, our analysis indicates that for Safety® medal to organizations with outstanding (incidents per 200,000 work hours) ExxonMobil employees ExxonMobil contractors to 2012. XTO safety performance improved significantly from 2011 to 2012. The XTO team will continue OIMS implementation in 2013 with a significant focus on safety leadership. It is with deep regret that we report that five workers were fatally injured in four separate incidents in 2012 in connection with ExxonMobil operations. We thoroughly investigated each incident, determined root causes and identified steps to prevent similar events in the future. Together with other industry leaders, ExxonMobil is working human factors continue to be primary contributors to incidents. We have learned that this, in part, has to do with the personal choices each of us makes to either accept or reject risk. At ExxonMobil,  we refer to this notion as “risk tolerance.” The concept of risk tolerance involves recognizing and identifying the risk, understanding it and then making the choice to either accept or reduce the risk. This has created an important dialogue that helps elevate awareness and reinforces expectations across all levels of our workforce. performance and achievements in workplace safety, community service, environmental stewardship and responsible citizenship. Driver safety Nearly 1.3 million people die every year from vehicle-related incidents, and up to 50 million are injured. In an effort to improve safety on the road, the United Nations has marked 2011 to 2020 as the Decade of Action for Road Safety. ExxonMobil is contributing to that effort. In 2012, we enhanced our defensive driving training program with a American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry employee benchmark 0.38 0.19 to improve our understanding of ways to more course that teaches drivers to detect and avoid effectively prevent fatalities or life-altering injuries. We also continued to orient global safety other drivers on the road who may be distracted. awareness efforts around “Actively Caring and We partnered with the Smith System Driver Through more robust planning for potential Approaching Others” — an integral characteristic Improvement Institute to develop the custom Year 20052006200720082009201020112012 1Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are consequences, especially those associated with of an established and effective safety culture training, which is available to all ExxonMobil based on information available at the time of publication. employees, contractors and family members. Since 2004, ExxonMobil has prohibited talking or using cellphones and electronic devices while driving a company vehicle or driving for company business. Contractor adherence From building pipelines to working on offshore platforms, thousands of contractors support our operations every day. At many of the projects that ExxonMobil manages, the majority of workers are contractors. We encourage collaborative efforts between our employees and contractors regarding safety. At our Baytown, Texas, complex, we identified barriers to safe practices among our contractors. To address this issue, we developed a set of site safety standards for all contract companies at Baytown that outlined critical roles and expectations of managers to improve safety accountability. The standards encourage a greater focus on hazard management and recognition, job hazard analysis and root cause analysis for incidents. By actively engaging contractors and their managers in this effort, Baytown’s contractor total recordable incident rate has decreased significantly in recent years.  Process safety Process safety management calls for managing the integrity of operating systems by applying good design principles and engineering, as well as sound operating and maintenance practices. Effective process safety management prevents the uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons and other hazardous substances with the aim of avoiding significant incidents with the potential for serious injuries and fatalities, widespread environmental impact and property damage. Our approach focuses on reducing risks and incidents through the flawless execution of OIMS. This includes cataloging risks and scenarios and employing a risk matrix to help focus overall risk-reduction efforts. Then we identify mitigation measures and design multiple safety barriers. We subscribe to industry standards — the American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 and International Association of Oil & Gas Producers No. 456 — that define process safety indicators and use a process safety incident triangle to represent events from tier 1 through tier 4. Process safety events fall into two categories: tier 1 and tier 2. Tier 3 represents process safety “near-misses,” and tier 4 represents leading performance measures, such as on-time maintenance performance. The lower tiers are measured and tracked to prevent events in tiers 1 and 2. During 2012, we had 63 tier-1 process safety events. Incident analysis indicates that human factors, procedures, training and supervision were the primary contributing elements for these events. We investigate incidents and near-misses, capture incidents in a common database and share them with engineering networks. We also collaborate with the American Petroleum Institute, the American Fuels and Petrochemical Manufacturers and the American Chemistry Council to share lessons learned associated with process safety events. We report process safety performance metrics at a prescribed frequency to our company presidents, management committee and chief executive officer. Emergency Preparedness Effective emergency preparedness depends on competent response teams. To develop and practice emergency response strategies, we establish emergency support groups comprising representatives from business lines; human resources; law; safety, security, health and environment; public and government affairs; and other technical advisors. We routinely test these trained teams on a range of possible scenarios, including simulated spills, fires, explosions, natural disasters and security incidents. Every site conducts emergency drills in accordance with regulatory requirements and OIMS Guidelines. We operate in some countries that do not have clear emergency response requirements. In those cases, we apply global good practices to determine the frequency of emergency drills. In 2012, we conducted comprehensive drills in Australia, Canada, Singapore, Romania, Russia and the United States. Each drill resulted in a list of good practices and potential improvement areas. ExxonMobil Production Company (EMPC) conducted a comprehensive drill during 2012 simulating a subsea release at one of our deepwater platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. More than 300 employees, contractors and specialists, the Marine Well Containment Company and several representatives from the U.S. Coast Guard and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement participated. The three-day drill included the time frame from initial response to simulating the lowering of a capping stack that would seal off a leaking well. Lessons learned included the need to better understand how to estimate flow rates from such an event and ways to improve coordination between response teams. Employee Health ExxonMobil provides support programs and services to help our employees live healthier lives. We consider workforce and community health issues to be key aspects of our project planning. Infectious disease management Exposure to infectious diseases — especially those found in tropical climates — can affect our workforce, their families and surrounding communities. We have established a steering committee for infectious disease control to monitor and address emerging disease-related issues built on the successful organizational structure of our Malaria Control Program. The committee plans to focus on developing and implementing programs in countries with a significant threat of vector-borne diseases, such as malaria, dengue fever and Japanese encephalitis; infectious disease outbreaks due to norovirus, pandemic influenza, cholera and other pathogens; tuberculosis; and HIV/AIDS. The committee is working to design and disseminate plans and awareness tools and review disease control programs of various affiliates. Our workplace HIV/AIDS program, StopAIDS, combines educational programs with access to community-based care and treatment to keep healthy workers disease-free and to educate HIV-positive workers on living with the illness. ExxonMobil does not test for HIV, and HIV status is not a factor in determining an employee’s ability to work. In 2012, our Angolan affiliate, Esso Angola, held an HIV/AIDS counseling and testing campaign that StopAIDS spearheaded. In partnership with the Ministry of Health’s National Institute in the Fight Up Close: Emergency Response Training It is ExxonMobil’s objective to respond rapidly and effectively to any type of incident that could occur, from a spill to a hurricane. Our specialized three-day training program equips employees with the skills needed to plan for and carry out a response using an Incident Command System structure, a process utilized by the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency, the U.S. Coast Guard and other organizations. Classroom instruction includes presentations on such topics as hazard recognition, spill containment and recovery, protective equipment, decontamination procedures, environmental sensitivities, oil spill behavior and effects, risk management, media relations, government affairs and the use of dispersants. We follow two days of classroom sessions with a day of outdoor hands-on training using oil spill response equipment. Training sessions began in 2009, and more than 400 employees have participated. In 2012, we expanded this program internationally. Upon completing the course, students have the basic training required to serve as incident commanders. Against AIDS and the Committee for Businesses Preventative health in Fighting HIV/AIDS, Esso Angola held a Multiple studies point to the fact that investing two-day campaign to provide optional testing in preventative health care is an effective and counseling to more than 300 employees. way of reducing the incidence of chronic conditions, such as heart disease, diabetes, We track employee and contractor incidences of respiratory ailments, cancer and depression. malaria in eight countries. In 2012, 10 malaria cases ExxonMobil’s Culture of Health is our U.S. were reported, compared with 10 in 2011, out of the site-based preventative health and wellness thousands of non-immune workers located in or program. ExxonMobil gradually introduced visiting endemic areas. Thus far, we estimate our health awareness campaigns and seminars workplace Malaria Control Program has averted to employees at work sites across the United 16 deaths and 1,739 cases of malaria among States in 2012 on topics ranging from workplace non-immune workers. ergonomics to eating habits to fitness. We have rolled out a new technology for field-Another example of a local wellness program testing company workplaces in West Africa can be found at our Singapore petrochemical and Papua New Guinea. The tests are used expansion project. Since construction began to ensure non-immune workers are taking in 2007, nearly 87,000 construction personnel chemoprophylaxis, which is prescription from 40 countries have performed work at the medication used to prevent malaria. The new site. Because of the site’s remote location, technology obtains test results within 10 minutes, the project team developed a fitness-to-work rather than four weeks, and costs 90 percent less. program that includes a full-service medical To learn about our efforts to eradicate malaria in team on-site, a checklist to screen workers for the communities where we operate, see page 64. illness or injury, training on illness recognition, An ExxonMobil spill training class in Paradis, Louisiana. The training is designed to provide employees with the skills they need to respond to an incident quickly and efficiently. routine health and hygiene inspections and return-to-work medical exams. This commitment to comprehensive health care is critical to managing the health and safety aspects of such a large workforce. We apply a similar approach at our Chad/ Cameroon pipeline project. Health care is a valued employee benefit in Chad and Cameroon because it can be difficult to access, especially in rural areas. In 2012, project health care clinics provided more than 19,000 free consultations to ExxonMobil workers. Workplace Security ExxonMobil continually assesses our vulnerability to security breaches — both to our physical assets and to our intellectual property. In 2005, we formally integrated security into OIMS, allowing us to embed it more deeply into day-to-day operations. Since then, ExxonMobil has developed consistent worldwide security practices and appointed and trained site-security contacts to meet challenges in the diverse locations where we operate. Each new facility goes through a security analysis that takes into account perceived risks, the application of potential countermeasures, relationships with communities, compliance with applicable laws and recognition of social norms. Our security managers regularly participate in governmental and industry forums to further enhance our established risk-management methodologies, threat-assessment capabilities and technical security applications. In higher-threat locations, we monitor local conditions and maintain detailed security preparedness plans. As information technology continues to evolve, cyber attacks present a risk to the safety and security of ExxonMobil’s data, facilities and ongoing business operations. During 2012, employees and contractors received cyber security training to learn to recognize and protect ExxonMobil against such threats. For more information about security at ExxonMobil, see page 61. Product Stewardship and Safety ExxonMobil works to minimize the risks and impacts associated with the manufacture, use and disposal of our products. Compliance and product safety disclosure As part of product stewardship, we assess safety, health and environmental aspects, as well as compliance with product safety legislation, both where our products are made and in their intended markets. OIMS and other management systems help ensure compliance with product stewardship regulations in more than 150 countries. Our Product Stewardship Information Management System applies common global processes and computer systems to capture and communicate information on the safe handling, transport, use and disposal of our products, as well as emergency contact information. A comprehensive regulatory surveillance process is in place to monitor and evaluate a growing number of new regulatory requirements that may apply to our products. For example, the United Nations Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) for hazard communication is being progressively introduced around the world. By the end of 2012, approximately 20 countries in which ExxonMobil has an interest had introduced local adaptations of GHS. The pace of implementation is expected to accelerate over the next few years as additional countries, including the United States, adopt GHS. In Europe, the chemical regulatory framework, Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), requires manufacturers and importers to provide extensive information about the environmental and health impacts of their products through a dedicated registration process. ExxonMobil has developed and implemented rigorous programs at our European manufacturing plants, and along the entire supply chain, to meet REACH requirements. To date, we have successfully completed more than 200 substance registrations, approximately 50 percent of the total required for completion by 2018. As members of the American Chemistry Council (ACC), we promote product stewardship in our Chemical business by implementing the United Nations Global Product Strategy Program, a voluntary program that provides public information on the safe use of chemicals. ACC members, including ExxonMobil, have posted more than 3,000 product safety summaries online and have completed this effort for all high-priority chemicals in 2012. We provide contact information on the back label of all Mobil engine oil packages sold in the United States for Earth911.com, an organization Wherever we operate, we uphold our commitment to building sustainable health capacity and infrastructure. At our Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project, we partnered with the Papua New Guinean government and key non-governmental organizations to provide new medical equipment to combat tuberculosis. This disease represents a health challenge in most developing countries. To date, the Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project has contributed nearly $1.25 million to support tuberculosis control. This includes assisting the Papua New Guinea Institute of Medical Research in securing three state-of-the art tuberculosis diagnostic machines for health facilities in the community. Traditionally, patients had to wait six to eight weeks for test results. These new machines provide a same-day response with high accuracy, allowing for early intervention and immediate treatment. that offers consumers information on where sands and tight gas. Our Chemical business follows they can properly dispose of used motor oil the International Organization for Standardization at specific product-collection locations. We (ISO 14040:2006 and 14044:2006) in developing recently signed another three-year contract with LCAs. During 2012, we began an LCA of Marcellus Earth911.com to extend this important service Shale gas used for power generation. We based to our customers. this analysis on extensive data from actual gas production and power generation operations. We Life-cycle assessments submitted the results for publication in a peer-ExxonMobil employs life-cycle thinking to help reviewed journal. manage the full range of potential safety, health and environmental impacts associated with our Employment Policies operations and products. The United Nations and Practices Environment Programme’s Life Cycle Initiative ExxonMobil focuses on developing a diverse is a partnership between the United Nations and workforce of highly talented individuals to achieve the Society for Environmental Toxicology and our business objectives. We use a long-term, Chemistry that is intended to put life-cycle thinking career-oriented approach that begins with global into practice globally. As an active participant, we recruitment of outstanding talent and continues contribute to studies and training initiatives related with development from within through a wide to life-cycle assessment (LCA), including for oil range of assignments and experiences. Diversity ExxonMobil conducts business in almost every part of the world. The diversity of ideas, perspectives, skills, knowledge and cultures across our company facilitates innovation and is a key competitive advantage. Through a range of programs, activities and investments, we strive to create and maintain a diverse workforce representative of the numerous geographies where we do business. Our Global Diversity Framework is the foundation for this approach with three interrelated objectives: attract, develop and retain a premier, diverse workforce; actively foster a productive work environment where individual and cultural differences are respected and valued; and identify and develop leadership capabilities to excel in a global environment. We use a series of web-based trainings and tools to support this framework and help our employees understand effective cross-cultural communication and cultural sensitivities. We support local employee networks around the world to foster a work environment committed to diversity and inclusion. These include the Asian Connection for Excellence (ACE); Black Employee Success Team (BEST); Global Organization for the Advancement of Latinos (GOAL); People for Respect, Inclusion and Diversity of Employees (PRIDE); and Women’s Interest Network (WIN). These groups facilitate professional development programs, sponsor educational and community service  programs to raise cultural awareness, and actively mentor and assimilate new employees to ExxonMobil. Our comprehensive diversity and inclusion efforts also include educational partnerships and supplier diversity initiatives designed to improve the quality of life where we live and work. We support diversity-based education programs, such as the Hispanic Heritage Foundation, National Society of Black Engineers, Society of Women Engineers, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, among others. We believe these strategic investments in education will help build a global pool of talent in science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields to support the further development of the oil and gas industry. Without education today, we cannot advance technological innovation to help meet our future energy needs. For more information on our educational initiatives, see page 64. Regarding our geographic workforce footprint, at the end of 2012, approximately 41 percent of our employees were located within the United States and 59 percent were located internationally. In 2012, approximately 33 percent of our executives were non-U.S. employees. We hired more than 2,500 management and professional employees worldwide, about 68 percent of whom were outside the United States. In addition, we sponsored more than 1,200 global internships and cooperative assignments. ExxonMobil is committed to promoting leadership opportunities for women globally and improving the gender balance within our company. This commitment extends to all aspects of the employment relationship, including recruitment, hiring, training, promotion, transfer and wage and salary administration. Currently, women account for about 28 percent of our worldwide workforce, excluding company-operated retail stores. In 2012, 39 percent of management and professional new hires were women, significantly higher than the percentage of women in our broader employee population. Approximately 15 percent of executive employees worldwide are women, an increase of 50 percent over the past decade. To increase the representation of minorities in our U.S. operations, our hiring programs include outreach to identify diverse candidates. This emphasis includes our technical scholarship program, which awards scholarships to 2012 Percentage of Female Management and Professional New Hires by Geographic Region Worldwide total 39% Africa/Middle East 21% Asia Pacific 41% Europe 44% Latin America 47% North America (excluding the United States) 36% United States 36% ExxonMobil interns to assist them in completing their college degree. In 2012, we provided 60 technical scholarships, an increase of 50 percent from 2009. From a U.S. recruiting perspective, our minority representation of management and professional new hires was 31 percent in 2012. Based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reporting, minorities made up approximately 24 percent of our U.S. workforce and about 16 percent of officials and managers in 2012. Approximately 12 percent of our U.S. executives in 2012 were minorities, representing a 33 percent increase over the past decade. Policies against discrimination and harassment ExxonMobil’s programs and policies are designed to employ the best people, recognize and reward superior job performance and create an environment in which employees can maximize their contributions and reach their full potential. A discrimination-free environment is essential to meeting these objectives. Management and Professional New Hires Percent women Percent outside the United States Year 38%2009 63% 40%2010 70% 44%2011 79% 39%2012 68% Our Standards of Business Conduct govern all aspects of the employment relationship, including recruitment, hiring, work assignment, promotion, transfer, termination, wage and salary administration and selection for training. These Standards support our commitment to equal employment opportunities, prohibit harassment and discrimination in the workplace and align with applicable laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. Any form of discrimination by or toward employees, contractors, suppliers and customers in any ExxonMobil workplace is strictly prohibited. Our global zero-tolerance policy applies to all forms of discrimination, including discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. Harassment, even in its most subtle forms, directly conflicts with company policy and will not be tolerated. All employees are subject to disciplinary action, including termination, for any act of harassment. We employ a comprehensive education, training and stewardship program to ensure that employees worldwide understand, implement and follow our anti-harassment policy. We also provide training programs for new employees and refresher courses for existing employees. Our annual reporting and compliance procedures include a letter to all senior managers emphasizing their responsibilities to maintain work environments free from harassment and discrimination. Each affiliate has adopted ExxonMobil’s global standards, with modifications only as needed to comply with country laws. Employee benefits and programs Exxon Mobil Corporation is committed to being the world’s premier petroleum and petrochemical company. Our benefits programs are part of a total remuneration package designed to support our long-term business objectives as well as attract, retain and reward the most qualified employees. The goal is to be responsive to the needs of employees throughout their careers and into retirement. Providing access to affordable health care helps employees manage health care issues and reduce related financial concerns, assisting them in being productive and focused on job responsibilities. Strong preventive health care plans and health-related programs also reinforce the Corporation’s commitment to wellness. Training Expenditures and Number of Employees Trained Spending (millions of dollars) Employees trained (participants) Year  2009  $71  2010  $77  2011  $80  2012  $88  2009  52,000  2010  61,000  2011  65,000  2012  76,000  Benefit coverage for spouses is based on legally recognized spousal relationships in each country where we operate. In the United States, we have adopted the definition of “spouse” used in federal law. In countries where national law recognizes same-sex relationships, employees receive spousal benefits under ExxonMobil programs. The funding levels of qualified pension plans comply with applicable laws or regulations. Defined benefit pension obligations are fully supported by the financial strength of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate. The company remains committed to providing retirement benefits that support our long-term career orientation and business models. Performance review process ExxonMobil supervisors foster an environment where personal and professional growth is encouraged and where employees understand company expectations of high performance and individual development. During the annual performance assessment and development process, all employees have a structured, documented discussion with their supervisors about work accomplishments, training objectives, development opportunities and career interests. This process provides the basis for ongoing employee coaching and continuous performance improvement. Employees are actively improving throughout the course of their careers with training, mentoring and opportunities to join professional networks. Flexible work environment Our workplace flexibility programs improve business and operational results by helping us attract and retain talent, address individual employee needs and maximize employee productivity. ExxonMobil offers a variety of workplace flexibility programs, which may be customized and used individually or in combination to meet individual needs. Each 2012 Workforce by Geographic Region2 (thousands of employees) Africa/Middle East 4.2 Canada 6.9 Asia Pacific United 12.9 States 31.9 Latin America Europe 3.9 17.1 2Data exclude company-operated retail store employees. country’s workplace flexibility program differs based on legal requirements, infrastructure and culture. Examples of employee programs include an adaptable workplace, modified work weeks, part-time regular employment, extended part-time employment and adjustable work hours. Training and development One component to retaining and maximizing the talent of a high-performing workforce for the long term is a comprehensive corporate and technical training program. In 2012, our major business units together spent more than $88 million on training, reaching more than 76,000 participants. To strengthen our technical capacity, more than 70 percent of our investment was directed to professional technical training. In addition, more than 3,500 employees at various management levels participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training programs in 2012, of which 29 percent were women and 2012 Percentage of Women and Minorities by Position in the United States Based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reporting Officials and managers Professionals Total employees Women 16% 32% 26% Minorities 16% 23% 24% 57 percent were non-U.S. employees. Our Upstream companies continued strategic investment in capability development by rolling out a technical and commercial leadership training program that enhances the operational and business skills of our professional workforce. In addition to formal training, ExxonMobil provides a variety of job experiences and development tools tailored to individual needs through various assignments during an employee’s career. Employee engagement ExxonMobil strives to communicate openly with our nearly 77,000 employees. In 2012, presidents of the functional companies held more than 60 town-hall-style forums and interactive meetings with employees, addressing topics such as safety, business performance and strategic initiatives, as well as answering employee questions. Exxon Mobil Corporation headquarters, located in Irving, Texas. Performing with the highest ethical standards of business conduct is a key competitive strength and is critical to maintaining our global license to operate. Highlighting a Decade of Performance Our priorities since 2002 Manage succession of non-employee directors in order to maintain a diverse and independent board Added 11 new board members, including two women, two minorities and one international member Drive high expectations for ethical standards and integrity across our global operations Added a corporate anti-corruption policy to the Standards of Business Conduct in 2011 Conducted business practices review sessions every four years for all employees Enhance disclosure and description of ExxonMobil’s executive compensation program Included management proposals on shareholder advisory votes regarding executive compensation in proxy statements, compensation discussion and analysis, brochures and a webinar Engage with shareholders Participated in shareholder dialogues or meetings on topics ranging from climate change to executive compensation Our continued responsibilities Recruit highly qualified non-employee director candidates Apply the highest ethical standards in all aspects of our business Engage with shareholders to maintain long-term business value Ongoing Completed 