Chairman’s letter ExxonMobil’s Corporate Citizenship Report details some of the work we do each day to provide the energy needed to improve standards of living throughout the world in a safe, ethical and environmentally and socially responsible manner. Our employees share a commitment to safety, integrity, operational excellence and good corporate citizenship; they work every day to protect the environment, maximize benefits for the communities in which we work, and maintain a safe, secure and healthy workplace. By focusing on creating long-term benefits for communities, we are contributing to society’s broader sustainability objectives, creating a more stable business environment and improved quality of life. Ten years ago, this report first introduced Protect Tomorrow. Today., a set of corporate-wide expectations to achieve superior environmental performance. This year’s report is an opportunity to highlight many of our accomplishments over the past decade, while discussing the environmental and socioeconomic challenges we continue to face. Meeting global energy demand As outlined in ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy: A View to 2040, energy demand has dramatically increased in recent years and will continue to grow by an estimated 35 percent from 2010 to 2040. Oil and natural gas will be essential to meeting the rising need, in conjunction with nuclear and renew.able energy supplies. No matter the economic and geopolitical climate, we will maintain the safety, operational and ethical diligence that has driven ExxonMobil’s success, so we can continue to provide the energy that is vital to progress. From the startup of eight new Upstream projects around the world to our ongoing developments in the Alaskan and Russian Arctic, we will continue our work to meet the increasing demand for energy. Commitment to excellence Our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt is at the heart of what we do every day. We are proud to be an industry leader in safety culture and performance, and in 2014 achieved our best-ever safety record. Examples of our safety leadership are included throughout this report. We strive to reduce environmental impacts across the life cycle of our projects. In 2014, we worked extensively in locations such as Alaska, Australia, Qatar and Russia to protect the ecosystems and biodiversity near our sites. We continue to look for ways to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our water and energy usage. We also engaged with local communities in coun.tries around the world to enhance the social benefits from our opera.tions. The case study about our work in Papua New Guinea (page 54) illustrates our holistic approach to corporate citizenship. Investing in the future Managing the risks of climate change is an important responsibility for our business and society at large. We continue to take steps to improve efficiency, reduce emissions and contribute to effective long-term solutions to manage these risks. In 2014, we invested approximately $1 billion in research and technology development in areas that include existing and next-generation energy sources and products that can enable more efficient energy consumption. By the end of 2014, we actively managed 7,200 acres of land for the benefit of wildlife, promoting environmental awareness in our work.force and local communities. We also work to remediate sites we are no longer using so they can be beneficially reused in the future. To ensure the continuity of our operations, we place an emphasis on hiring local workers and providing them with the technical and leadership skills that can serve them throughout their careers. This approach also enables us to contribute to economic development in the countries where we do business. We also continue to support a variety of long-term community investments. Our ongoing efforts to combat malaria and other infectious diseases enabled us to mobilize swiftly to help address the Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa in 2014, as detailed on page 22. We fund initiatives that focus on science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education, as well as the economic empowerment of women through our women’s economic opportunity initiative, now in its 11th year. Advancements in these areas will benefit our society now and in the future. As always, we welcome input from all of our stakeholders at exxonmobil.com/citizenship. Rex W. Tillerson Chairman and CEO exxonmobil.com/citizenship 3 About ExxonMobil About ExxonMobil ExxonMobil’s integrated businesses ExxonMobil is a global provider of the energy that is critical to driving progress and improving the lives of people around the world. We recognize the significant responsibilities we have to our shareholders, neighbors, customers and communities in our daily operations as we find safe, efficient and respon.sible ways to bring affordable energy to a global market. Our employees, technical expertise, financial strength, global reach and management practices provide ExxonMobil with a com.petitive advantage and long-term investment value. As the world’s largest publicly held oil and gas company, ExxonMobil has a diverse and balanced portfolio of high-quality assets, projects and resources across our Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses. We seek to maintain a large, diverse and balanced portfolio of opportunities to ensure profitable growth through a wide range of investment and geopolitical environments. Upstream Our Upstream business encompasses high-quality exploration opportunities across all resource types and geographies, an industry-leading resource base, a portfolio of world-class proj.ects and a diverse set of producing assets. We have an active exploration or production presence in 36 countries. 4.0 million oil-equivalent barrels of net oil and gas production per day Downstream Our balanced Downstream portfolio includes refining facilities in 17 countries. We are one of the largest integrated refiners and manufacturers of lube basestocks and a leading marketer of petroleum products and finished lubricants. Our high-quality products, combined with a strong global refining and distribu.tion network, position us as a premier supplier around the world. 5.9 million barrels of petroleum product sales per day Chemical ExxonMobil Chemical is one of the largest chemical companies in the world. Our unique portfolio of commodity and specialty businesses delivers superior returns across the business cycle. We manufacture high-quality chemical products in 16 countries. Our products serve as the building blocks for a wide variety of everyday consumer and industrial products. 24.2 million metric tons of prime product sales1 1Prime product sales are total product sales, excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales include ExxonMobil’s share of equity company volumes and finished product transfers to the Downstream. exxonmobil.com/citizenship 4 Contributing to progress Contributing to progress Energy flows through every product and enables nearly every human endeavor. Current global energy demand is estimated to be about 550 quadrillion BTUs, which is equivalent in energy to more than 12 billion gallons of gasoline daily. Energy pro.vides comfort and security, enables personal mobility, powers commercial buildings, supports travel and trade, and fuels modern manufacturing. ExxonMobil plays a role in providing the energy crucial for continued economic prosperity and human progress. Not only does ExxonMobil provide energy throughout the world, but we also make significant positive impacts on the global economy through capital and exploration expenditures, shareholder distributions and tax payments that totaled $196 billion in 2014. For more information about our financial per.formance, see our 2014 Summary Annual Report. ExxonMobil 2014 Summary Annual Report Global economic flows from ExxonMobil in 2014 Billions of dollars Capital and exploration expenditures Government $39 taxes and duties $83 Shareholder distributions $24 Production, manufacturing and office expenses $50 exxonmobil.com/citizenship 5 The Outlook for Energy The Outlook for Energy World liquids supply by type 2040 global demand by fuel The coming decades are poised for a dramatic step in human progress. Economic growth in China, India and other non.OECD1 countries will enable some 3 billion people to enter the middle class — the largest collective increase in living standards in history. This transition will increase demand for food, travel, electricity, housing, schools, hospitals and businesses to meet countless needs. Ongoing progress results in the dual challenge of meeting the world’s energy needs while managing the environmental effects — including climate change — of energy use. The good news is that practical options to meet people’s needs for reli.able, affordable and cleaner energy continue to expand. We update our long-term energy outlook each year — taking into account the most up-to-date demographic, economic and technological information available. This analysis serves as a foundation for our long-term business strategies and investments. By sharing our Outlook for Energy with the pub.lic, we hope to broaden that understanding among individuals, businesses and governments. Energy matters to everyone, and we all play a role in shaping its future. Million oil-equivalent barrels per day  120  Biofuels Other Natural gas liquids  80  Tight oil Oil sands  Deepwater  40  New conventional crude and condensate  0  Developed conventional crude and condensate  2000 2020 2040 Quadrillion BTUs 250 0.8% Average annual growth rate 200 1.6% 150 0.1% 100 0.5% 2.3% 50 5.8% 1.8% 0 Oil Gas Coal Biomass Nuclear Solar/ Hydro/ wind/ geo biofuels The following are highlights from this year’s Outlook for Energy: • The global population is projected to rise to 9 billion in 2040, as global economic output more than doubles. Energy demand will increase about 35 percent, even with signif.icant efficiency gains. Essentially all the growth in energy demand will come from developing countries. • Oil is expected to remain the world’s primary energy source, with demand rising by almost 30 percent, driven largely by growth in commercial transportation requirements and the chemical industry’s need for feedstock. At the same time, natural gas is expected to see demand growth of about 65 percent, rising to second place in the overall energy mix, as a wide range of consumers choose natural gas for its affordability, reliability, versatility and low emissions. • Oil and gas are likely to meet about 65 percent of the global energy demand growth to 2040. At that time, unconven.tional supplies enabled by technology are expected to account for 35 percent of global gas production and about 45 percent of global liquids production. • New development of traditional conventional oil deposits is expected to rise significantly, but not quite enough to offset declines in developed fields, as seen in the chart above. • From 2010 to 2040, global electricity demand is projected to increase by about 85 percent, as living standards rise, economies expand and the electrification of society contin.ues. The demand for fuel to produce that electricity is pro.jected to rise by only about 50 percent, reflecting improved efficiency in power generation and transmission. By 2040, more than 70 percent of the world’s electricity is likely to come from natural gas, nuclear and renewable energies. • We expect that most every nation will seek to curb CO2 emissions without harming the prospects of greater pros.perity for its own citizens. By improving energy efficiency and reducing the CO2 content across the energy mix, we anticipate global energy-related CO2 emissions will rise by about 25 percent from 2010 to 2030, and then decline approximately 5 percent to 2040. Outlook for Energy: A View to 2040 1Refer to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) website (oecd.org) for a listing of its members. exxonmobil.com/citizenship 6 Sustainability and engagement Sustainability Engaging with our stakeholders ExxonMobil is committed to addressing the challenge of sustainable development — balancing economic growth, social development and environmental protection so future generations are not compromised by actions taken today. By designing our approach to corporate citizenship around six key focus areas, we contribute to society’s broader sustainability objectives and manage the impact of our operations on local economies, societies and the environment. For a company of our size, building and maintaining relationships with a diverse group of stakeholders are both priorities and ongoing challenges. Many people, organizations and communities are impacted directly by, and have a direct impact on, our business. Energy issues are complex, and our stakeholders represent multiple viewpoints. The discussions we undertake with our stakeholders help us understand a variety of perspectives. Regular stakeholder engage.ment helps us continue to improve our company and remain a responsible corporate citizen. We engage our stakeholders using a variety of mechanisms, including community meetings, the Internet and social media, corporate publications, and one-on-one and group discussions, among others. We include examples of stakeholder engagement throughout this report. Our stakeholders, and topics in which each is interested, include: Employees Nongovernmental • Benefits; diversity; development organizations opportunities; safety, health • Biodiversity; climate change; human rights and wellness Customers Governments • Product sustainability; supply chain • Taxes; local supplier development; job management; greenhouse gas emissions creation; impact assessments; ethics; education; governance practices Suppliers Shareholders • Expanding local supply network; supplier diversity • Governance practices; board composition; policy engagement; sustainability Communities • Community development; human rights; economic development; grievances exxonmobil.com/citizenship 7 External Citizenship Advisory Panel External Citizenship Advisory Panel ExxonMobil has engaged an External Citizenship Advisory Panel (ECAP) since 2009 to provide an annual, independent review of the company’s corporate citizenship activities, including this report. The ECAP members are experts in social and environmental topics and are leading academics, non.governmental organization (NGO) representatives and former government employees. Each year, the ECAP reviews an early draft of this report and provides feedback, which we evaluate and incorporate into the report as appropriate. To view the ECAP’s statement on the 2014 report, please see our website. 2014 ECAP statement Based on the panelists’ feedback on the 2013 report, we have made strides in this year’s report to provide additional details or metrics in particular areas. Three such examples follow. “The candid recognition of challenges helps to enhance the report’s credibility with stakeholders. We encourage the company to continue developing content in future years to provide more granular examples of where the company has set goals for itself and met the goal, or explain challenges the company is working through to meet the goal.” On the following pages, we include a candid discussion with Vice President of Public and Government Affairs Ken Cohen on key sustainability issues and challenges, including a response about the company’s approach to setting goals. We have also explained more clearly in this year’s chapter on managing climate change risks (beginning on page 33) why we do not set corporate-wide energy efficiency or greenhouse gas emission goals, but rather have targets at the facility- or business unit-level. “We would like to see the company go one step further in future reports to provide more transparency and clarity about its community engagement practices and the topics being discussed, and the company’s response to these. For example, what are the specific concerns being raised; are systematic processes in place to ensure an inclusive and safe process for women and underprivileged community mem.bers to participate in the engagement exercise; are griev.ance mechanisms available; and where does the company disagree with community stakeholders?” In response to this feedback, we have included a discussion on the grievance management mechanisms we utilize in Papua New Guinea (beginning on page 54) and provided metrics in several examples throughout the report to put this topic into greater context. In addition, we have included several com.munity engagement examples in the community and social impact chapter (beginning on page 43), including initiatives in Cameroon, Canada and Indonesia. We will strive to continue to include these types of community engagement references in future reports. “We acknowledge that standards-based human rights reporting lags behind environmental metrics across all sectors. But by incorporating the same approaches it uses for environmental and safety reporting, ExxonMobil has the opportunity to be among the leading companies in the area of reporting about its human rights activities as well.” We recognize the collection and disclosure of human rights metrics is an ongoing challenge and are working to develop additional meaningful metrics. In this report, we disclose grievance management mechanism metrics on pages 47 and 55. We have also begun to explore this issue as it relates to our supply chain, and we completed phase two of our pilot supplier human rights risk assessment program. Mark Cohen Professor of Management and Law Vanderbilt University Owen Graduate School of Management Sarah Labowitz Co director of Center for Business and Human Rights New York University Stern School of Business Frank Loy Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs U.S. Department of State Jane Nelson Director of Corporate Responsibility Initiative Harvard University Kennedy School of Government Salil Tripathi Director of Emerging Issues Institute for Human Rights and Business exxonmobil.com/citizenship 8 Key sustainability issues and challenges Key sustainability issues and challenges Our stakeholders are increasingly interested in how we are addressing sustainability challenges in our operations. Ken Cohen, ExxonMobil’s vice president of public and government affairs, answers some of the most frequently asked stakeholder questions below. How do you respond to those advocating divestment from companies involved in producing fossil fuels? Climate change is a significant risk management challenge facing society today. Much is currently being done, but we need to continue to do more, especially in the areas of energy efficiency and new technology. At ExxonMobil, we are interested in solutions, not symbolism. We are helping to meet the challenge by supplying cleaner-burning natural gas, which has contributed to reducing U.S. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to 1990s levels; develop.ing emissions-reducing technologies; encouraging energy efficiency; and pursuing research with our university partners to advance the search for solutions. The Lac Megantic accident in Canada seems to show that shipping crude by rail is dangerous. Why do you continue to move crude by rail? Lac Megantic was a tragic accident and a reminder that no industrial activity is risk-free. While this particular incident did not involve ExxonMobil, it does show that rail transport has risks — and no matter how small, these risks can have terrible consequences. Rail is a critical part of the North American energy infrastructure, connecting areas of new crude oil production that are not served by pipelines to the marketplace. Rail transport of liquids has a record of safety and efficiency going back many decades, but the risks do require careful management and mitigation. In planning our own operations, ExxonMobil conducts exten.sive and comprehensive risk analysis assessments on every segment of our logistics system, including rail transportation of crude oil and petroleum products. Those assessments guide ExxonMobil’s transportation decisions and man.agement of the risks associated with the transport of such materials. Rail transportation safety requires managing rail maintenance, train operations, car integrity and emergency response. We are focused on the areas we can manage and have taken several steps to ensure safe rail transportation of our products, including: • The design, construction and leasing of rail cars that meet the highest safety standards in the industry; • Robust management processes to ensure appropriate inspections and maintenance of our rail car fleet; and • Engagement with the railroads through industry trade asso.ciations and work groups to share best practices in safety management programs; ensure appropriate emergency response planning; and implement programs to support an effective response to any incident. Oil and natural gas production is on the rise worldwide. Why must you seek more sources in extreme locations like the Arctic? Our industry has been producing oil and natural gas in the Arctic region for nearly a century. Continuing development is important to meeting the world’s growing energy needs and will help alleviate poverty, raise living standards and increase economic opportunity for millions of people around the world. The process of safely finding, producing and marketing oil and natural gas can take decades, and we are careful never to progress faster than our technology will safely allow. With recent technological advances in offshore drilling, ice manage.ment and oil spill prevention, we are capable of developing Arctic resources safely and responsibly. Doing so today will enable us to meet the world’s economic and energy security needs tomorrow. How are you managing your water use and water quality in communities where you are conducting hydraulic fracturing? The amount of water needed to hydraulically fracture a typical shale gas well ranges from 3–4 million gallons, but it is important to put that number into perspective. For example, natural gas production in Texas accounts for only 1 percent of overall water use as compared with other industries, such as agriculture. Additionally, according to a recent study by the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Labora.tory, shale gas production uses about 10 times less water than is used for coal production, and 1,000 times less water than is used for fuel ethanol or biodiesel production. In Texas, research.ers concluded that fracking for natural gas actually saves water compared with other fuels used to produce electricity. But that does not mean we should not work hard to reduce our water use. We understand the necessity to conserve water and, in fact, our global net freshwater consumption decreased by 15 percent between 2007 and 2014. exxonmobil.com/citizenship 9 Key sustainability issues and challenges Why doesn’t your company acknowledge the link between the use of hydraulic fracturing injection wells and earthquakes? ExxonMobil recognizes that no matter the cause — natural or human induced — local communities and residents have concerns about seismic activity in their area. In some instances, seismic activity has been associated with the long-term injection of wastewater from oil and gas operations into deep under.ground disposal wells. As a leader in the development and production of unconven.tional resources, we believe it is important to gain a better understanding of all types and sources of seismic activity. As discussed on page 28, we are working with experts both inside and outside the company to improve our scientific under.standing of the risks and how they can best be mitigated.  What are you doing to resolve issues resulting in local fracking bans? There is a lot of misinformation about hydraulic fracturing. We believe those of us in the industry can help alleviate concerns by explaining — forthrightly and in terms that everyone can understand — what we do and how we do it safely. We engage with local communities in several ways, including: providing speakers and technical experts for community events; delivering regular operational updates to inform local officials and com.munity leaders of planned activity; and hosting open houses to allow community members to meet with our teams and learn more about our operations in their area. We also post our company name and contact information, along with the appropriate safety signage, at all of our operat.ing sites, and we address inquiries in a timely manner. Exam.ples of community concerns that we have addressed include: • Limiting truck traffic during school transit hours and through neighborhoods; • Using sound mitigation technology at compressor stations and around active drilling sites; and • Working with conservation organizations on site restoration projects, including reintroducing native plant life and trees. You say you support a carbon tax, but how are you actively advocating for this policy? When governments are considering policy options, we advo.cate an approach that ensures a uniform and predictable cost of carbon; allows market prices to drive solutions; maximizes transparency to stakeholders; reduces administrative com.plexity; promotes global participation; and is easily adjusted to future developments in climate science and policy impacts. We continue to believe a revenue-neutral carbon tax is better able to accommodate these key criteria than cap-and-trade regimes. We engage stakeholders directly and through trade organizations around the world to encourage such sound pol.icy options. For more details, please see the managing climate change risks chapter, beginning on page 33. How can you defend continuing production of oil and natural gas when its use is contributing to climate change? Although natural gas is cleaner-burning than coal, won’t it displace renewables and lead to higher GHG emissions overall? Society continues to face the dual challenge of expanding energy supplies to support economic growth and improve liv.ing standards, while simultaneously addressing the risks posed by climate change. Continued production of hydrocarbons is essential to meeting growing energy demand worldwide, and in preventing consumers — especially those in the least developed and most vulnerable economies — from themselves becoming stranded in the global pursuit of higher living stan.dards and greater economic opportunity. ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy and all credible forecasts, including that of the International Energy Agency, predict carbon-based fuels will continue to meet about three-quarters of global energy needs through 2040. For more details, please see the managing climate change risks chapter, beginning on page 33, and our Energy and Carbon — Managing the Risks report that was released in March 2014. Energy and Carbon — Managing the Risks exxonmobil.com/citizenship Why don’t you set environmental goals, such as GHG emissions or flaring targets? ExxonMobil signed on to a U.S. refining industry 10-year objective in 2002, as part of an initiative with the American Petroleum Institute, to improve energy efficiency by 10 percent over 10 years. We were the only signatory to meet the target and, in fact, expanded the goal to include our global refining and chemical manufacturing operations. All of our businesses and individual facilities set a wide array of environmental goals and targets each year. Each business is responsible for operational integrity-related metrics, and they are closely stewarded. While we do not set corporate-wide environmental targets, we do indeed have environmental goals, which are tailored locally to drive significant improve.ments in environmental performance. We believe this rigorous bottom-up approach is a more effec.tive way to drive efficiency improvement, including reductions in GHG emissions, than simply setting high-level corporate targets. We also believe continuing to use this approach will yield further improvements in all sectors of our business. Why don’t you provide more social metrics in your report? We are committed to understanding the impacts of our social investments on local communities. We are currently working in close collaboration with many of our partners to design more robust measurement and evaluation plans and enhance their measurement capacity. In 2012–2013, for example, we partnered with the United Nations Foundation to produce A Roadmap for Promot.ing Women’s Economic Empowerment. This report, which summarized the findings of 18 research studies, identified the most effective interventions that directly advance a woman’s economic standing over the long term, not just those that have attracted the greatest number of participants. ExxonMobil Perspectives blog 10 A worker at our Fawley integrated refining, Safety, health and chemical and lubricant manufacturing complex in the United Kingdom. We are relentless in our pursuit of safety so every employee and contractor comes home from work each day safe and healthy. the workplace We are invested in our employees’ futures — working every day to ensure Nobody Gets Hurt. The continued success of our company is embedded in our commitment to health and safety and our dedication to the development of our workforce. 50% reduction in lost-time injuries and illnesses rate for employees and contractors over the past 10 years A lot of people look at Nobody Gets Hurt as simply a statement of desired results. While Nobody Gets Hurt does accurately reflect the desired results we are looking for, it is so much more in that it reflects our safety culture at its deepest core. Nobody Gets Hurt is an expressed value that demonstrates ExxonMobil s care and commitment to the com munities in which we work and the families of the workers in our operations.” — Jack Toellner, P.E., CSP Senior safety consultant Safety Safety is more than just a priority at ExxonMobil — it is a core value and an integral part of our culture. Protecting the safety and health of our workforce is fundamental to our business. We are relentless in our pursuit of safety so every employee and contractor comes home from work each day safe and healthy. This commitment also extends to members of the communities where we operate. We will never stop working toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. All of our employees and third-party contractors have the responsibility to work safely, regardless of job function. We take a disciplined approach to safety, grounded in the foundation of our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS). OIMS is embedded in our everyday work processes at all levels, and we continuously work to improve our own performance. An important element of OIMS is assessment of our work pro.cesses and risk management actions. An independent team of qualified professionals regularly audits our processes and shares best practices and lessons learned across the company. For more information about OIMS, see page 24. Although the number is declining, safety incidents and near-misses do occur. To prevent serious injuries, there is an elevated focus on “life-saving” practices for work activities that have the potential for serious injuries if not done properly. Examples include lifting heavy loads, operating equipment and working with electrical power or at elevated heights. When a safety incident or near-miss does occur, we investigate the incident and all potential outcomes and evaluate barri.ers required to avoid future occurrences. This analysis helps improve our work processes and practices in our pursuit of operational excellence. As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we look at leading indicators that could help with risk preven.tion and mitigation to reduce incidents further. These leading indicators will allow for a closer analysis of incidents with potentially severe consequences and will contribute to the reinforcement of leadership and organizational behaviors con.sistent with our relentless pursuit of operational excellence. Lost-time incident rate1 Incidents per 200,000 work hours 0.30 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark Total recordable incident rate2 Incidents per 200,000 work hours 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark 1,2Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on   information available at the time of publication. Workforce includes   employees and contractors.    “We have a relentless focus on eliminating high potential consequence events — it’s not just about what happened, but what could have happened and how do we best ensure that it never does.” Bob Bailes Downstream and Chemical safety, security, health and environment manager Personnel safety Every ExxonMobil employee has a common responsibility in every assignment we undertake: identify, assess and mitigate the risks associated with our operations. We continued to work toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt in 2014. When compared with 2013, our workforce lost-time incident rate decreased by 30 percent. Over the past 10 years, we have reduced this rate by 50 percent. However, we know we still have work to do to reach our goal. We deeply regret that three contractors were fatally injured in three separate incidents related to ExxonMobil operations in 2014. Two of the incidents were related to working with wellhead and drilling equipment, and the third occurred at a construction site. We thoroughly investigated these and all incidents to learn how to prevent similar incidents in the future, and then enhanced our work practices and facilities accord.ingly. We have implemented processes to look at all incidents, even those with no injuries, to understand the potential of the incident. By applying this process, we seek to learn from any incident with the potential for a more serious outcome. This process is in line with studies we have conducted to target serious injuries, in an effort to eliminate any high-potential consequence event. We will relentlessly pursue this goal until we achieve our stated vision of Nobody Gets Hurt. We broadly share the results of our findings with our organization, so our employees and contractors can learn how to better protect themselves and their coworkers. As part of our operations-wide dedication to safety, we strive for a partnership between all workers, including third-party suppliers and contractors. Every day, our contractors take part in safety training and safety meetings alongside our employ.ees. For example, since we started our Major Projects Group in Western Canada, we have conducted safety orientations for more than 72,000 people, ensuring the vision of Nobody Gets Hurt extends to everyone. A key element in our strategy for our contractors is to enhance their leadership practices and safety management systems. Since 2000, we have con.ducted annual safety leadership forums with our major project contractors, with the focus on a partnership that leads to an injury-free workplace. In 2014, ExxonMobil Development Company hosted a contractor safety forum for approximately 70 contract companies with the theme of Safety Partnerships and Culture of Caring. Our operations in LaBarge, Wyoming, passed a safety mile.stone in December 2014, completing two full years without a recordable injury across all work groups and functions. This accomplishment represents more than 1.6 million safe work hours and is the safest-ever period for this location. This suc.cess was achieved through clear alignment on safety expec.tations, commitment by the workforce and visible leadership engagement. Another key aspect of this success was an “our house” mindset that established a sense of family and owner.ship within the work teams. This sense of family translates into a culture where our workers are ensuring that everyone goes home in the same condition as they came to work. “Excellence in safety performance is achieved through strong leadership, formal and informal, at all levels in the organization, driving effective management system prac.tices and nurturing a supportive culture.” Jim Seale Upstream safety, security, health and environment manager Up Close: Demonstrating safety leadership We are proud of our culture of safety, and we strive to be a global safety leader not only in our industry but among all companies worldwide. In 2014, ExxonMobil and our affiliates around the world received the following honors and awards for our commitment to safety: • The Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Associ.ation (APPEA) honored ExxonMobil Australia with its 2014 Safety Excellence Award for ExxonMobil Australia’s record year in 2013, achieving zero lost-time injuries across all operations in the country. ExxonMobil Australia achieved this safety record in the midst of the completion of the Kipper Tuna Turrum project, which saw a new offshore production facility brought online. Though we have had many safety accomplishments, we continue to look for ways to improve so we can meet our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. For example, our Downstream business analyzed safety data from projects over a five-year period and noticed the majority of incidents occurred during the final 20 percent of a construction project. As a result, we developed the “Finish Strong” program to help project management teams understand the dynamics associated with the end of a project, as well as communicate tips that have helped other teams maintain their safety focus throughout the life of a project. This focus has resulted in a strong improvement in safety performance. For example, in 2010, up to 80 percent of safety incidents occurred near the end of a project. In 2013, we reduced this number to approximately 10 percent and achieved zero in 2014.  Process safety Our position as a safety leader includes diligent management of process safety: equipment, procedures and training that prevent • ExxonMobil Colombia was the recipient of the 2013 Emerald Cross Award from the Colombia Safety Council in February 2014. ExxonMobil received 99.4 out of 100 points on safety, health and environmental performance, the top score in Colombia during 2013. • ExxonMobil received three Construction Industry Safety Excellence awards from the Construction Users Roundtable (CURT) in 2014. These awards recognized Downstream projects in the United States and Saudi Arabia. This marks the first time a company has won three CURT awards in the same year. • Mobil Oil Nigeria received the 2014 award for best health, safety and environmental standards in West Africa from Capital Finance International. The panel of judges recognized Mobil Oil Nigeria for “always placing health, safety and envi.ronmental concerns at the heart of its operating strategy.” the uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons and hazardous sub.stances. Our goal is to prevent incidents with the potential for serious injuries or fatalities, widespread environmental impact or property damage. To that end, we employ multiple layers of protection, or barriers, to help prevent a loss of containment, as illustrated in the graphic on the following page. We subscribe to the American Petroleum Institute (API) Rec.ommended Practice 754 and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers No. 456, which are industry standards. These standards define process safety indicators and use a process safety incident triangle to represent events from Tier 1 through Tier 4. Tiers 1 and 2 include incidents resulting in a loss of primary containment. According to the API, loss of primary containment is defined as an unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment, including nontoxic and nonflammable materials. Tiers 3 and 4 represent near-misses and leading performance measures such as on-time maintenance performance. In 2014, we had 65 Tier 1 process Richard Owen of ExxonMobil Australia (right) receives the 2014 Safety Excellence Award from APPEA Vice Chairman Warren Ford at the APPEA Conference in Perth, Australia. safety events. Although this is slightly higher than in 2013, our focus on process safety remains high, with a continued empha.sis on barrier health and effective risk discovery and mitigation. Collaborating with our peers and industry associations on pro.cess safety is a company priority. We serve on industry work groups and initiatives focused on improving safety. For exam.ple, we are actively engaged in the Advancing Process Safety Initiative, a collaborative effort between the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers and the API, representing nearly all of the U.S. refining capacity. This initiative is focused on improving process safety performance across the industry by sharing experiences and knowledge about process safety events, hazard identification and performance metrics, and industry-proven practices. This effort recognizes that when a significant process safety event occurs at any site, it affects everyone in the industry by eroding stakeholder trust. Layers of protection: effective barrier implementation through OIMS Layers of protection help reduce risk. OIMS execution ensures effective barriers are intact. Equipment Processes People OIMS ExxonMobil is also engaging with railroads that are transport.ing our products to understand the capabilities of all involved entities and find areas where we can assist. Through this engagement, we believe the proper equipment, procedures and people are in place to react to any potential emergency situation. We will continue to work with our industry peers and railroads to ensure safe transport of oil products. Growth in crude oil transported by rail, 2008–20143 Thousands of carloads 500 400 Product safety and responsibility As part of product stewardship, we assess the safety, health and environmental aspects of our products, as well as compli.ance with product safety legislation for all intended markets. Our rigorous Product Stewardship Information Management System applies common global processes and computer systems to capture and communicate information on the safe handling, transport, use and disposal of our products, as well as emergency contact information. It also ensures compliance with regulations in more than 150 countries. Due to the evolving nature of regulatory requirements, we continually monitor developments to ensure our products comply with regulations, including: • United Nations Globally Harmonized System of Classifica.tion and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS); • Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH); • United Nations Strategic Approach to International Chemi.cals Management (SAICM); and • Clean fuel standards in the United States and the European Union. Product transport by rail Our stakeholders have been increasingly interested in the industry’s management of safe product transport by rail. In the North American market, ExxonMobil manages one of the largest shipper fleets in our industry to move our plastics, chemicals, lubricants and fuels products to our customers. Over the past five years, the industry has seen a significant increase in the utilization of rail transport for crude oil, primarily due to new unconventional production sources. In 2015, ExxonMobil will start up a new joint venture crude rail terminal in Edmonton, Alberta, which will ship Western Canadian crude to our U.S. Gulf Coast and midcontinent refineries. We have comprehensive risk management plans in place to ensure rail transportation of all products is managed in the safest manner. These plans address rail car design and loading and unloading procedures to ensure safe transit. Safe transport by rail is a shared accountability, covering rail maintenance, train operations, car integrity and emergency response. The API and Association of American Railroads joint working group works to ensure all entities — suppliers, cus.tomers, railroads and local emergency responders — have the resources and training necessary to prevent, and when nec.essary, respond effectively to any potential emergency events. 300 200 100 0 U.S. Canada 32014 data are based on preliminary information available at the time of    publication. Data provided by API and represent carloads across the industry.  Emergency preparedness and response The ability to respond to emergencies promptly is a critical aspect of our business. Effective emergency preparedness and response depends on competent response teams. To develop and practice emergency response strategies and complement on-site responders, we establish strategic Emergency Support Groups (ESGs) around the world, consisting of a wide range of ExxonMobil employees. We routinely train ESG members on a range of possible scenarios, including simulated spills, fires, explosions, natural disasters and security incidents. In 2014, nearly 500 employees participated in more than 40 ESG training sessions. Our emergency preparedness and response model builds on a foundation of rapid and comprehensive response. Regardless of the size of an event, each ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to a wide array of trained responders, including our Regional Response Teams (RRTs). Our three RRTs — North America; Europe, Africa and Middle East; and Asia Pacific — comprise approximately 500 ExxonMobil personnel trained on one consistent system with common roles and responsibilities. They provide rapid professional support when needed. Workplace security Ensuring the security of our people, physical assets and intel.lectual property is deeply embedded in our daily operations. We have developed consistent worldwide security practices and have trained site-security contacts to meet challenges in Up Close: Emergency response training In 2014, 120 members of the Europe, Africa and Middle East RRT participated in a three-day event in Hampshire, United Kingdom. The exercise involved a tanker berthed at a refinery marine terminal. In the scenario, the offloading pipe from the tanker was ruptured, and oil was released into the water. While the refinery team dealt with securing the jetty, the RRT worked with representatives of the Port, Coastguard and Environment Agency to contain and clean up the hypothetical spill. The team called upon a range of training and technical inno.vations, including handheld survey tools for beach assessment and an unmanned aerial vehicle to take photographs and video. The team worked closely with Oil Spill Response Ltd., based the diverse locations where we do business. Each new facility goes through a security analysis that takes into account poten.tial risks, the application of countermeasures, relationships with communities and compliance with applicable laws. Our security personnel regularly participate in government and industry forums to enhance our established risk-management methodologies, threat-assessment capabilities and technical security applications. In higher-threat locations, we monitor local conditions and maintain detailed security preparedness plans. For more on security and human rights, see page 44. We continue to protect our business against the growing risk of cyberattacks, which can potentially affect our data, facilities and ongoing operations. On average, our cybersecurity screening programs block more than 70 million emails, 140 million Inter.net access attempts and 150,000 other potentially malicious actions each month. We have an ongoing awareness program to reinforce safe computing behaviors with our workforce through periodic communications and mock email phishing tests. In 2014, 100 percent of our employees and contractors in Southampton, to deploy emergency response equipment, including containment booms. Our public and government affairs employees responded to the challenge of engaging with local residents who would have been directly affected by such an oil spill, as well as handling the resulting media impact. They used on-demand communications software to manage incom.ing inquiries and establish an incident website for the exercise. In September 2014, the North America RRT also held a three-day exercise in Valdez, Alaska, involving more than 100 ExxonMobil and SeaRiver personnel and nearly 200 representatives from regulatory agencies, tribes, communities and response contractors. The exercise involved a simulated tanker spill of 200,000 barrels of oil and provided an invaluable opportunity to strengthen existing relationships in Valdez, as well as build new ones. completed Web-based cybersecurity training on how to iden.tify and respond to potential cybersecurity risks. Health and wellness ExxonMobil cares about the health and well-being of our employees and their families. We offer a variety of programs ranging from infectious disease prevention to help with living a healthier life. Being a global company, an ongoing challenge is the range of health concerns prevalent in the different loca.tions in which we work. Some locations expose our workforce and their families to a higher risk of infectious disease, so we have established a structured program for infectious disease control to monitor and address related issues. As part of this program, we developed a multiyear plan that focuses on implementing programs in locations with a significant threat of malaria and other vector-borne diseases, infectious outbreaks, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS. For more information about how we work to keep our employees and communities safe from these infectious diseases, see our case study on page 20. “We put a lot into this year’s exercise in order to stretch the team and make use of the range of equipment and technol.ogies we have at hand. The teams performed well, and we continue to build on our strengths and make improvements to our operations.” Mark Wentworth Emergency preparedness and response adviser Our workplace HIV/AIDS program in Africa, StopAIDS, com.bines educational programs with access to community-based care and treatment for those affected by HIV. ExxonMobil does not test for HIV, nor is HIV status a factor in determin.ing an employee’s ability to work. However, ExxonMobil encourages voluntary counseling and testing conducted by community partners. ExxonMobil also invests in preventive health care to reduce health care costs by providing resources to better manage chronic conditions such as heart disease, diabetes, respira.tory ailments and depression. ExxonMobil’s Culture of Health is our U.S.-based preventive health and wellness program. Outside the United States, we are piloting culturally relevant programs within the context of different health care systems, health needs and available resources in the countries where we have offices and operations. Currently, our pilot programs are in Argentina, Malaysia, Nigeria and the United Kingdom. Up Close: ExxonMobil’s Culture of Health At ExxonMobil, a focus on employee health is a priority. Our U.S. Culture of Health (CoH) program is a sound, evidence-based program designed to support the health of our employees and reduce health care costs. CoH features multiple components to promote wellness and healthy living: personal health assessments, health screenings, Workforce We are committed to our employees’ professional development and supporting their career goals. We seek to foster a diverse workforce of highly talented individuals committed to achieving our business priorities. We use a long-term, career-oriented approach that includes recruiting outstanding talent and devel.oping individuals by providing them the opportunity to complete a wide range of assignments. Our employee culture is grounded in a shared commitment to safety, integrity, high-quality work and good corporate citizenship. Employment practices and policies ExxonMobil has operations around the world. The diversity of ideas, perspectives, skills, knowledge and cultures across our company facilitates innovation and is a key competitive advantage. Through a range of programs, activities and investments, we strive to create and maintain a diverse work.force representative of the numerous geographies where we do business. health coaching and worksite educational activities. These activities help employees address wellness issues such as physical activity, nutrition, stress and disease prevention. Each year, individuals can earn cash incentives and gain useful health information by completing certain components of the program. This program is available to all ExxonMobil U.S. employees and family members (age 18 and older) eligible to enroll in an ExxonMobil Medical Plan. Retirees who are enrolled in an ExxonMobil Medical Plan are also eligible to participate. Andrew Hanna, a sales account manager based in our Fairfax, Virginia, office, became involved in the CoH program in his first year at ExxonMobil, as he experienced challenges maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Moving to a new city, learning a new job and spending most of his time in the office all contributed to unhealthy habits. Through participation in CoH and lifestyle coaching, Andrew’s main health objectives became nutrition Our Global Diversity Framework is the foundation for our long-term, career-oriented approach to employment, with three interrelated objectives: • Attract, develop and retain a premier, diverse workforce from the broadest possible pool to meet our business needs worldwide; • Actively foster a productive work environment where indi.vidual and cultural differences are respected and valued, and where all employees are encouraged to contribute fully to the achievement of superior business results; and • Identify and develop leadership capabilities to excel in a variety of international and cultural environments. Our Standards of Business Conduct govern all aspects of our employment, including recruitment, hiring, work assignments, promotions, transfers, terminations, wage and salary admin.istration, and selection for training. The Standards support our commitment to equal employment opportunities, prohibit and exercise. He transitioned from evening to morning work.outs, and received help developing weekly grocery lists of nutritious foods to bring to work. “I am working with my health coach to achieve these goals and find ways to improve my nutrition, exercise and lifestyle. Having a personal health coach who is dedicated to helping me achieve my health goals is a phenomenal resource.” Andrew Hanna Sales account manager harassment and discrimination in the workplace, and align with applicable laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. We strictly prohibit any form of discrimination by or toward employees, contractors, suppliers or customers in any ExxonMobil working environment. Standards of Business Conduct Our zero-tolerance policy applies to all forms of discrimina.tion, including discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. In January 2015, we updated our U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity and Harassment in the Workplace policies to include sexual orientation and gender identity, which is consistent with ExxonMobil’s long-standing practice of listing enumerated protected classes as defined by federal law. Harassment, even in its most subtle forms, directly con.flicts with company policy and is not tolerated. Every employee is subject to disciplinary action, including termination, for any 2014workforce by geographic region4 Thousands of employees Africa/Middle East 4.1 Canada 6.9 Asia Pacific 13.5 Europe 15.7 4Data exclude company-operated retail store employees. Latin America 3.8 act of harassment. We employ a comprehensive education, training and stewardship program to ensure employees world.wide understand, implement and follow our anti-harassment policy. We provide training on the Standards for new employees and offer regular refresher courses to existing employees. Diversity and inclusion We support local employee networks globally to foster a work environment committed to diversity and inclusion. These include the Asian Connection for Excellence (ACE); Black Employee Success Team (BEST); Global Organization for the Advancement of Latinos (GOAL); People for Respect, Inclusion and Diversity of Employees (PRIDE); Veteran Advocacy and Support Team (VAST); and Women’s Interest Network (WIN). We also support diversity-based education programs and professional organiza.tions such as the National Society of Black Engineers, Society of Women Engineers, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, among others. We believe these strategic investments in edu.cation will help build a global, diverse pool of talent to advance technologies to help meet future energy needs. For more infor.mation on our education initiatives, see pages 50 and 51. We remain committed to improving the gender balance within our company. ExxonMobil promotes leadership opportunities for women throughout all aspects of the employment rela.tionship, including recruitment, hiring, training, promotions, transfers, and wage and salary administration. Currently, women account for about 28 percent of our world.wide workforce. In 2014, 40 percent of management and pro.fessional new hires were women, significantly higher than the percentage of women in our broader employee population. In the United States, 34 percent of our newly hired engineers were female, higher than the U.S. percentage of female engineering students. Approximately 17 percent of executive employees worldwide are women — an increase of 55 percent over the past decade. This increase is a result of continued focus on early identification of female management development candidates. Notably, approximately 29 percent of our early career stage executive employees worldwide are women. For more informa.tion on how we advance opportunities for women worldwide, see pages 49, 52 and 62. 2014 percentage of women and minorities by position in the United States Based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reporting Women 16.4% 32.3% 26.4% 25.2% Minorities 16.4% 24.7% Officials and managers Professionals Total employees 2014 percentage of female management and professional new hires by geographic region Worldwide total 40% Africa/Middle East 43% Asia Pacific 51% Europe Latin America 40% 54% North America (excluding the United States) 35% United States 31% To increase the representation of minorities in our U.S. opera.tions, our hiring programs include outreach to identify diverse candidates. For example, through our technical scholarship program, we award scholarships to ExxonMobil minority interns to assist them in completing their college degrees. In 2014, we provided 62 technical scholarships, an increase of 240 percent over the past 10 years. In the United States, our minority representation among management and professional new hires was 32 percent in 2014. Further, 35 percent of our newly hired engineers were minorities, significantly higher than the percentage of U.S. minorities in our broader pop.ulation. Approximately 13 percent of our U.S. executives in 2014 were minorities, an increase of 55 percent over the past decade. Consistent focus on early identification of minority management development candidates has further enhanced our bench strength in this area: 23 percent of early career U.S. executive employees are minorities. Retention and engagement Our global, diverse workforce represents a competitive advan.tage for ExxonMobil. We retain and develop our employees Training expenditures and number of employees trained5 2010 $77 2011 $80 2012 $88 2013 $96 2014 $117 61,0002010 65,0002011 76,0002012 87,0002013 79,0002014 Spending (millions of dollars) Employees trained (non-unique participants) 52014 increase in expenditures impacted by change in cost reporting practices.  by providing an environment where personal and professional growth is encouraged, and career objectives are developed and achieved. During the annual performance assessment and development process, all employees have a structured, docu.mented discussion with their supervisors about work accom.plishments, training objectives, growth opportunities and career interests. This process provides the basis for ongoing employee coaching and continual performance improvement. The company’s training programs, mentorships and network.ing opportunities also help employees throughout their time at ExxonMobil. Another aspect of our retention and engagement strategy involves providing a robust corporate and technical training program. Our major business units spent $117 million on train.ing employees in 2014, reaching 79,000 non-unique training participants. To maintain our position as a technical leader in the industry, we directed 75 percent of our investment toward professional and technical training. Additionally, 4,540 employees at various levels of the company participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training programs in 2014, of which 33 percent were women and 58 percent were employees from outside the United States. “Over my career, I have been fortunate to hold many varied assignments, providing the opportunity to grow and develop my skills and capabilities. As a leader, the key is to provide an environment where everyone can develop to his or her poten.tial, applying unique capabilities to further the business.” Sara Ortwein Upstream Research president Employee benefits Our benefits programs are an integral part of a total remuner.ation package designed to support our long-term business objectives, as well as attract, retain and reward the most qualified employees. The goal is to be responsive to the needs of employees throughout their careers and into retirement. Ensuring access to affordable health care helps employees manage health care issues and reduce related financial con.cerns. Benefits coverage for spouses is based on legally recog.nized spousal relationships in each country where we operate. The funding levels of qualified pension plans comply with applicable laws or regulations. Defined benefit pension obligations are fully supported by the financial strength of ExxonMobil or the respective sponsoring affiliate. The com.pany provides retirement benefits that support our long-term career orientation and business models. Case study – Combating infectious diseases, both inside and beyond our fence line Case study Combating infectious diseases, both inside and beyond our fence line Mother and child in a President s Malaria Initiative (PMI)-supported community. ExxonMobil partners with PMI in Angola. (Photo credit: Lilia Gerberg, PMI) Keeping our employees safe and healthy is a long-standing ExxonMobil commitment. Infectious diseases have no bound.aries, and our globally mobile workforce can be exposed to those with potential for severe health consequences. Our corporate-wide Medicine and Occupational Health (MOH) organization assists company sites by helping ensure adequate resources are in place to protect the health of our workers. In addition, ExxonMobil’s commitment to health extends beyond our employees to reach the communities where we work. ExxonMobil has witnessed firsthand the devastating human and economic toll malaria takes on its workforce, families and communities. Encouraged by the signing of the Abuja Decla.ration and the Millennium Development Goals, the company took seriously the call for the private sector to join the fight against diseases of poverty, which kill millions. We believe that by playing a role in improving public health, we can foster healthier communities and ultimately, stronger economies. Protecting employees from malaria Malaria is one of the infectious diseases prevalent in areas where we operate in both Africa and Asia and is therefore one of several diseases we focus on in our workforce health pro.grams. In 2000, MOH initiated a corporate workplace malaria control program, adopting the World Health Organization framework for malaria control and prevention, and combining awareness, bite prevention, the use of chemoprophylaxis, and early diagnosis and treatment. The impact was dramatic and resulted in a significant decrease in malaria cases. Over the past decade, this program has helped avert an estimated 2,000 malaria cases among non-immune workers, and since 2007, no ExxonMobil employees or contractors have died from malaria. The integration of new technology for testing urine for malaria chemoprophylaxis as a verification measure has helped achieve these results. We partnered with the Biomedical Research Institute of the French Army to support development of a related rapid diagnostic test, which saved more than $1.1 million total in laboratory expenses in 2013 and 2014. Annual number of reported malaria cases among ExxonMobil non-immune workers 250 200 150 100 50 0 Contractor non-immune malaria cases Employee non-immune malaria cases exxonmobil.com/citizenship 20 Case study – Combating infectious diseases, both inside and beyond our fence line “As a physician for ExxonMobil in Angola, I have been inspired by the integrated approach the company takes to address malaria. Having seen the way malaria impacts workers, their families and communities in sub-Saharan Africa, ExxonMobil introduced a workforce malaria program and support for community malaria control efforts more than a decade ago. However, ExxonMobil is not alone in our commitment to fight malaria. We are part of a larger effort of businesses partnering with the public sector to drive a comprehensive response to the disease. In sub-Saharan Africa, this joint support has made a powerful impact, and it is emblematic of how corporations can be agents of change across a spectrum of control efforts.” Dr. Ana Margarida Setas-Ferreira Regional adviser for community and public health Providing community support for malaria prevention and control Recognizing the broader impact of malaria in some com.munities where we work, ExxonMobil started collaborating with nonprofit organizations in the fight against malaria in 2000. Since then, malaria programs funded by ExxonMobil have reached more than 124 million people. Our support has helped distribute more than 13.5 million bed nets, 2.1 million doses of antimalarial treatments and 2.2 million rapid diagnos.tic kits, as well as trained more than 400,000 health workers. Our cash grants during that period totaled more than $130 million, making us the largest private-sector grant-maker in the fight against malaria. We are involved in a wide range of global initiatives that include partnerships with corporations, philanthropic organi.zations and NGOs to prevent, treat and find a vaccine for this disease. One such partner is Grassroot Soccer, an NGO that educates youth on how to prevent malaria and HIV/AIDS using soccer-based games and activities. ExxonMobil began working with Grassroot Soccer and its local partners to combat malaria through the Skillz Malaria program in Nigeria in 2011. Since then, we have invested nearly $1.8 million to expand the program to 30,000 youth in Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea and Tanzania. Grassroot Soccer works with local partners who work directly with youth in schools, community centers and on soccer fields in areas endemic to malaria. Through a series of soccer-themed games and activities delivered by local role models, the participants address knowledge gaps, build their skills and access health services that help prevent them and their families from contracting and potentially dying from malaria. For our efforts in working with organizations such as Grassroot Soccer to prevent and treat infectious diseases in Nigeria, ExxonMobil was named the Best Company in Health.care for 2014 at the country’s Social Enterprise Report and Awards gala. In 2015, we plan to continue successful in-country programs with our affiliates in Africa and add programs to encourage greater surveillance and additional research to address drug and insecticide resistance. We will focus on prioritizing direct service delivery of bed nets and other health care commodi.ties to Nigeria and Angola, investing in improved surveillance systems and resistance research, and ensuring a pipeline of new antimalarial drugs. ExxonMobil website — malaria exxonmobil.com/citizenship 21 Case study – Combating infectious diseases, both inside and beyond our fence line “Fight Malaria” teaching the importance of using treated bed nets to school participants at the World Malaria Day football tournament in Lagos, Nigeria. Protecting employees from other infectious diseases ExxonMobil established a steering committee for infectious disease control in 2011, expanding the focus from malaria to include tuberculosis, infectious disease outbreak management, vector-borne diseases and HIV/AIDS. Concurrently, we rolled out an Infectious Disease Outbreak Management (IDOM) program around the world, with oversight from the steering committee. The IDOM program provides prevention, pre.paredness and response protocols for disease outbreaks in our workplaces, combining a set of globally applicable procedures and including a tool kit for investigation. Following the IDOM program implementation, the average number of workers affected during outbreaks decreased by nearly 50 percent the first year. The program has proven to be effective at remote sites and offshore facilities, and other oil and gas companies are adopting ExxonMobil’s approach for the prevention and control of infectious disease outbreaks. In 2014, ExxonMobil received the first Safety Leadership Award from the Center for Offshore Safety for its IDOM and Hurt Free programs, in recognition of the programs’ effectiveness in successfully protecting the health and safety of workers and our broad sharing of these best practices across the industry. Our response to Ebola in West Africa Global companies with internationally mobile workforces have a unique challenge when it comes to the prevention and control of infectious diseases like Ebola that can have signifi.cant health, economic and business continuity consequences. The 2014 Ebola epidemic affected multiple countries in West Africa. In Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation and a country where we have a large operational presence, there were 20 reported cases of Ebola following the arrival of an infected traveler from Liberia. The country was able to respond quickly to contain the outbreak and return Nigeria to Ebola-free status. During the initial stages of the outbreak, our Houston- based Africa Emergency Support Group implemented regular communications with ExxonMobil’s Nigerian and other West African affiliates to review established site preparedness and response measures. Concurrently, we launched awareness communications with dedicated Web-based information, while also coordinating efforts with company medical pro.viders, local health authorities, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and international health organizations. Further, ExxonMobil provided grants to partners to support their efforts across West Africa, including Plan International to aid Ebola prevention and recovery efforts in Liberia; the Red Cross as the outbreak worsened in Liberia; and the U.S. CDC Foundation to support the CDC’s response to the outbreak in Nigeria. In Nigeria, Liberia and other African countries, we took every possible precaution to protect our workers and their fami.lies and successfully maintain our business activities without compromising safety, security, health or the environment. As part of capacity building in Nigeria, ExxonMobil contracted with the Baylor College of Medicine — home to the National School of Tropical Medicine — which sent a six-person team to train nearly 1,500 employees, community members and public health officials on how to prevent and treat the virus. Addition.ally, ExxonMobil provided Ebola-related training; expert advi.sory resources, materials and equipment; personal protective gear; and vehicles to government agencies in Nigeria during the outbreak. “Our work in Nigeria demonstrates a teachable moment: When confronting a public health emergency, a nation needs a unified, uniform and standardized response.” Dr. Bobby Kapur M.D., M.P.H, lead for six-person team from the Baylor College of Medicine Our experience with Ebola in West Africa has demonstrated the value of a unified approach under strong national lead.ership in combating deadly infectious diseases. The lessons learned on the role a company can play will inform our planning for responses to potential future outbreaks. exxonmobil.com/citizenship 22 Employees working at our Kearl wetlands reclamation project in Canada. Globally, our projects are carried 