GOVERNANCE Good corporate governance creates a business environment conducive to long-term growth. ExxonMobil employs a variety of policies and processes to uphold high ethical standards and promote transparency. Our efforts are underpinned by a board of directors that provides strategic oversight of our corporation’s affairs. The ExxonMobil board of directors. From left: Angela Braly, Kenneth Frazier, Steven Reinemund, Susan Avery, Samuel Palmisano, Darren Woods, William Weldon, Douglas Oberhelman, Ursula Burns and Steven Kandarian. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY ExxonMobil strives to uphold high ethical standards at all times and in all aspects of our business. Our Standards of Business Conduct set the ethical conduct expectations for our corporation and majority-owned subsidiaries. Employees must annually confirm that they have read and comply with the Standards to ensure a consistent understanding. ExxonMobil requires that all employees, officers, directors and those working on our behalf comply with all applicable laws. ExxonMobil encourages employees and contractors to ask questions, voice concerns and report any alleged violations of company policies. In addition to our open-door communication procedures, ExxonMobil has several confidential mechanisms for reporting. Employees can submit concerns through a 24-hour hotline phone number or a mailing address. We respect confidentiality, subject to legal requirements, and strictly prohibit retaliation against any employee for submitting concerns. A hotline steering committee reviews reports of suspected violations. The board audit committee, comprising three independent, non-employee directors, oversees accounting and internal control matters for the company, including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The board audit committee receives a quarterly report summarizing the steering committee’s findings, including any policy violations. Confirmed violations lead to disciplinary actions, up to and including termination. For more information on the board audit committee, visit the company’s annual proxy statement. We conduct regular internal audits and self-assessments to verify the effectiveness of our control systems and adherence to our Standards of Business Conduct. ExxonMobil’s team of internal auditors annually reviews approximately one-third of the corporation’s activities and processes. Internal auditors have access to all operations, records, personnel and properties. We thoroughly investigate any suspected acts of noncompliance with the Standards of Business Conduct. Employees in relevant job functions receive in-person training on anti-trust, anti-corruption, anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls soon after entering their positions and every year thereafter. In 2018, nearly 37,000 employees and contractors participated in such training. 2018 performance highlights 37K PARTICIPATED IN COMPLIANCE TRAINING Nearly 37,000 employees and contractors participated in compliance training. ~1/3OF ACTIVITIES AND PROCESSES AUDITED ExxonMobil’s team of internal auditors annually reviews approximately one-third of the corporation’s activities and processes. BOARD LEADERSHIP ExxonMobil’s board of directors provides oversight of the corporation’s affairs. Board members select an independent director to serve as the presiding director to help ensure a level of independence in our board leadership. Board members expect the presiding director to serve for a minimum of two years. The presiding director serves as a liaison to the chairman. The director reviews the schedule and agenda for all board meetings in advance, and in consultation with the chairman, as well as other materials distributed to the directors. The board believes the shareholder interests are best served through a leadership model combining the roles of chairman of the board and chief executive officer. At year-end 2018, nine of ExxonMobil’s 10 directors were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange guidelines. In 2018, the board of directors met nine times. ExxonMobil’s directors, on average, attended approximately 99 percent of board and committee meetings during 2018. Board diversity ExxonMobil recognizes that the strength and effectiveness of the board reflects the balance, experience and diversity of the individual directors; their commitment; and the ability of directors to work effectively as a group in carrying out their responsibilities. The board affairs committee recommends board of director candidates in accordance with our Guidelines for the Selection of Non-employee Directors. The board affairs committee looks for highly qualified, non-employee candidates with demonstrated leadership, competency and a commitment to represent the interests of our shareholders. An independent executive search firm helps identify external candidates for consideration who have: • Achieved prominence in their fields; • A diversity of backgrounds, including gender and race/ethnic diversity; • Experience and demonstrated expertise in managing large, complex organizations such as that of chief executive officers or senior executives of a large company or organization with global operations; • Expertise in financial and other risk management; • Experience on one or more boards of significant public organizations or nonprofit organizations; • Expertise resulting from significant professional or academically based scientific or research activities; and • Experience with cyclical businesses such as commodities. The board affairs committee considers recommendations from shareholders and board directors to help ensure the selection process is collaborative. At year-end 2018, 44 percent of the board’s independent directors were female or an ethnic minority. Engagement on sustainability topics ExxonMobil’s board of directors is responsible for risk oversight. Meeting agendas routinely include sustainability topics and board members review the effectiveness of the company’s policies, programs and practices. The entire board receives regular briefings on public policy, scientific and technical research, as well as company and external positions related to environmental stewardship and climate change. Throughout the year, the board considers several climate-related matters. The board reviews the Outlook for Energy, the company’s safety, health and environmental performance, the annual corporate plan, shareholder proposals and regulatory filings. Risk oversight is the responsibility of the entire board. The various board committees conduct deeper reviews and provide additional insight on important topics. For example, the audit committee assesses ExxonMobil’s overall risk management approach and structure to confirm risks across the company are being appropriately considered. Several sustainability-related topics typically fall under the purview of the board’s public issues and contributions committee (PICC). The PICC provides oversight of the corporation’s safety, security, health and environmental performance. The members review the company’s management practices on safety, security, health, the environment and corporate social responsibility, including actions taken to address climate change risks. 2018 performance highlights 9/10INDEPENDENT  9 BOARD  DIRECTORS  MEETINGS  At year-end 2018,  The board of directors  nine of ExxonMobil’s  met nine times.  10 directors were  independent as defined  by New York Stock  Exchange guidelines.  Spotlight  Public issues and contributions committee Within ExxonMobil’s board of directors, the public issues and contributions committee reviews company policies, programs and practices on public issues to provide relevant feedback. A broad range of backgrounds and areas of expertise for individual public issues and contributions committee members helps to identify connections between different issues and ensures the group is able to evaluate and inform the board effectively on complex issues such as climate change risks. 99% 44% BOARD BOARD MEETING DIVERSITY ATTENDANCE At year-end 2018, 44 percent of the On average, board’s independent ExxonMobil’s directors directors were female attended ~99 percent or an ethnic minority. of board and committee meetings. The public issues and contributions committee, along with other members of the board of directors, makes annual site visits to ExxonMobil operations to observe and provide input on current operating practices and external engagement. In 2018, the public issues and contributions committee traveled to ExxonMobil’s Permian operations near Carlsbad, New Mexico. The visit included a tour of a well site where directional drilling and hydraulic fracturing technologies are being employed, as well as a production site where oil and gas are separated and stabilized prior to transport and use. Through these field visits, the committee is able to see first-hand and validate that the risk management process and Operations Integrity Management System are effective at protecting the corporation’s employees, the community and the environment. The committee utilizes this information, along with reports on the safety and environmental activities of the operating functions throughout the year, to provide recommendations to the full board. ENGAGING WITH GOVERNMENTS Transparency in payments to governments We recognize the importance of disclosing relevant payments to governments to reduce corruption, improve government accountability and promote greater economic stability worldwide. We consider the most successful transparency initiatives are those that: • Apply to all foreign, domestic and state-owned companies; • Protect proprietary information to promote commercial competitiveness; • Comply with international trade conventions and treaties; and • Do not violate host government laws or contractual obligations. ExxonMobil is a founding member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global organization that promotes the accountable management of oil, natural gas and mineral resources. Companies and governments participating in EITI report payments and revenues, enabling EITI to reconcile any differences between the totals and publish validated total government revenues. ExxonMobil actively participates at both the EITI secretariat and country levels. Every year, an ExxonMobil representative serves on the EITI board as either a primary or an alternate member. We work with several governments that are EITI members, as well as others considering membership. Currently, 52 countries are compliant members or have been accepted as candidates to begin reporting under the EITI standard. Policy engagement ExxonMobil believes sound public policy should include input from a variety of stakeholders. We recognize that public policy decisions made at all levels of government can have significant effects on our current and future operations. ExxonMobil exercises its right to support policies that promote stable investment for long-term business viability. ExxonMobil engaged on several issues in 2018 to support responsible economic, energy and environmental policies in the United States, including: • Energy infrastructure: With the right regulatory policies in place, private investments in oil and gas infrastructure could exceed $1.3 trillion by 2035, adding 1 million U.S. jobs and increasing gross domestic product by almost $2 trillion, according to a study conducted by global consulting firm, IFC, commissioned by the American Petroleum Institute. • Free-market policies: ExxonMobil is committed to ensuring a level playing field in energy markets and protecting consumer access to affordable, reliable and safe energy for homes and businesses. Policies that alter markets in ways that favor some fuel sources over others could impact free-market competition and negatively affect consumers. • Regulatory reform: ExxonMobil supports legislation that enhances transparency, accountability and objectivity of regulatory processes to improve public safety and minimize economic cost. • Trade: As a global company, ExxonMobil relies on free and fair trade agreements and policies, which include strong protections such as Investor State Dispute Settlement provisions. We support policies that maintain freedom to import and export goods and services, which also provide consumers with more choices. U.S. lobbying expenses In 2018, ExxonMobil’s U.S. federal lobbying expenses totaled $11.2 million, as publicly reported in our filings under the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Further information on federal issues ExxonMobil lobbied in the United States in 2018 is available on our website. Political contributions The board of directors has authorized ExxonMobil to make political contributions to candidate committees and other political organizations as permitted by applicable laws in the United States and Canada. The board annually reviews ExxonMobil’s political contributions, as well as the contributions from the company-sponsored political action committee. Internal audits of the corporation’s public and government affairs activities routinely verify corporate contribution amount. Eligible employees and retirees may participate in the U.S. political process by contributing to a voluntary, company-sponsored, federal PAC. ExxonMobil reports PAC contributions to the U.S. Federal Election Commission every month. In 2018, we contributed more than $273,000 to state candidates and caucuses in eight U.S. states. During 2018, ExxonMobil’s PAC disbursed nearly $920,000* to federal and state candidates. Corporate political contributions are subject to an internal review process that requires approval from the chairman. *Totals may not reflect some candidates’ failure to deposit, or returned contributions not yet posted. 