Engaging communities and our supply chain Our approachExxonMobil is committed to being a good corporate citizen in the places we operate worldwide.We work to safeguard the health and security of our employees and the public, responsibly manage our social impacts, and uphold respect for human rights in our operations. ExxonMobil strives to create effective collaborations with its stakeholders—our workforce, suppliers and customers, and the communities around the world where we operate.Our focus areasRespecting human rights   Our communities   Our global supply chain   Four hands, interlocked.Respecting human rightsExxonMobil’s commitment to respecting human rights is embedded throughout our corporate policies, practices and expectations. Our practices are guided by the goals of universally recognized human rights principles and support our integrated approach to identifying and mitigating potential human rights impacts of our activities. We strive to have a positive influence on our workforce and in the communities where we operate. ExxonMobil condemns human rights violations in any form and has actively expressed these views to governments and stakeholders in countries in which our affiliates operate. We do not utilize forced or compulsory labor in our operations and forbid the use of children in our workforce.Guided by the goals of globally recognized principlesOur respect for the rights of our workforce and those within the communities where we operate is embedded throughout our corporate policies, practices and expectations and reflect the spirit and intent of the United Nations.Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They also support the International Labour Organization 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (ILO Declaration), including: .	Freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. .	Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. .	Effective abolition of child labor. .	Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our policies and practices also incorporate elements of the 2011 U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) “Protect, Respect and Remedy” framework for the distinct but complementary roles of businesses’ and governments’ regarding human rights including commitments, due diligence and access to remedy.When applicable, our practices are also guided by the goals of the:Web link.Voluntary Principles on Security and Human RightsWeb link.U.N. Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous PeoplesWeb link.ILO Convention 169 Concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent CountriesExxonMobil participates in related international initiatives, including our active involvement with Ipieca. Our engagement with Ipieca also includes developing and sharing practices on human rights due diligence and human rights supply chain management across the oil, natural gas and other extractive industries.Web link.United Nations.Universal Declaration of Human RightsWeb link.International Labour Organization 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (ILO Declaration)PDF link.2011 U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs)Two people conversing over a document in a classroom of people.Integrated into our policies and practicesWhile ExxonMobil is not a formal signatory to the U.N. Global Compact, a voluntary corporate initiative in support of UN goals, our Standards of Business Conduct incorporate key elements of the pact.These standards include what we call our “foundation policies,” and define our goals for the Corporation’s ethical conduct. The Board of Directors adopts and administers these standards, which uphold the values of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. In addition, our wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries generally adopt similar policies.Web link.Our Statement on Labor and the Workplace reinforces ExxonMobil’s commitment to providing positive, productive and supportive work environments. Additionally, our Standards of Business Conduct provide a framework for responsible operations and.are consistent with the spirit and intent of the ILO.Declaration. ExxonMobil and its affiliates support these principles, developing and implementing policies, procedures and practices that align with applicable laws and specific circumstances to accomplish the objectives of the ILO Declaration.Web link.Our Statement of Principles on Security and Human Rights highlights our commitment to conduct business in a way that protects the security of personnel, facilities and operations and respects human rights. The framework guides our wholly owned and majority-owned operating affiliates on managing interactions with host government-assigned security and private security providers. It also offers guidance for documenting and reporting allegations of human rights abuses in the protection of our assets.Web link.Our Supplier, Vendor and Contractor Expectations call for the operations and business practices of these entities to be conducted in a manner consistent with the ILO Declaration, which recognizes freedom of association and includes the elimination of child labor, forced labor and workplace discrimination. They also communicate our expectation of respecting human rights in a manner consistent with the goals of the UNGP. Our suppliers, vendors and contractors are held to stringent compliance, anti-corruption, non-conflict, safety and other guidelines in order to remain in good standing.Reinforced through trainingEmployees are introduced to the Standards of Business Conduct, which include ExxonMobil’s foundation policies, upon commencement of employment. During employment, employees are reminded of the Standards of Business Conduct annually. Business practices training is required for employees every four years. This includes training on select foundation policies such as Ethics, as well as complaint procedures and open-door communication. Our wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries generally adopt policies similar to our foundation policies and provide similar training.Web link.Human rights-related trainingDue diligenceOur practices support early identification and assessment of potential human rights impacts, along with other socioeconomic impacts and opportunities associated with our activities. We work to avoid or reduce any human rights or socioeconomic risk through comprehensive planning, effective mitigation, monitoring and other measures. As part of our Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment and Management process we conduct initial country assessments that include early identification of qualitative human rights risks. We also apply a human rights risk screening tool to support our analysis of these potential risks at country, project and operation levels, incorporating elements aligned with key global human rights principles.Our socioeconomic management practices are guided by our corporate Environmental Aspects Guide (EAG) and consistent with our Environment Policy and Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS).PDF link.Environmental Aspects Guide (EAG)Access to remedyConsistent with international standards, we help provide effective, accessible and culturally appropriate channels for individuals or communities to raise concerns in a way that seeks to support confidentiality and non-retaliation. We make these available through our community and operations-level grievance management processes, as well as our complaint procedures and open-door communication for employees. More information can be found on our website on how our processes and practices for stakeholder engagement and grievance management support our integrated approach to human rights and access to remedy. Web link.Our approach to managing community engagement and grievancesStrategic elementsCommunities and people Our goal is to maximize benefits of our business to local communities and to appropriately manage environmental, socioeconomic and health risks. Our socioeconomic management practices support our integrated approach to respecting human rights and include elements such as community health, safety and security; local economic development; land use, resettlement and livelihood restoration; cultural heritage and Indigenous peoples. Web link.Our approach to socioeconomic managementSecuritySince 2002, ExxonMobil has been a member of the Voluntary Principles Initiative, a multi-stakeholder effort supporting the implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Our standard security services contracts include provisions, where appropriate, requiring training for security personnel on expectations and responsibilities associated with one or more of the goals articulated in international principles, local laws and regulations.Web link.Our approach to security and human rightsWorkforce and suppliersWe respect the human rights of our workforce through our focus on workforce development, safety, security and health, as well as our procedures for complaints and open-door communication. We use an integrated, risk-based due diligence approach that focuses on workplace rights and leverages our current practices and systems to identify, assess and manage potential human rights risks within our supply chain. More information on our integrated, risk-based due diligence approach to supply chain human rights can be found on our website. How we measure our performanceTo monitor our effectiveness, we have processes to track performance. We also do the following: We continue to actively engage with evolving international initiatives. .	In 2020 and 2021, ExxonMobil helped develop the new edition of the Human Rights Due Diligence Guide, the Labour Rights Risk Identification in the Supply Chain, and the Supply Chain Library of Questions and Resources, all published by Ipieca. Over the past several years, we have provided the following training to reinforce our respect for human rights: .	Since 2016, we have supported the development and delivery of training on the goals of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights for more than 40,000 security service providers and members of government security forces..	Since 2016, more than 700 procurement employees have received training tailored to procurement professionals to help improve their understanding of human rights in the supply chain. .	Over the past several years, computer-based human rights awareness training has been available to company employees, including professionals in the Procurement function, to improve their understanding of human rights issues and awareness of potential human rights risks.Key examples of our disclosures and compliance with laws and regulations related to human rights include:.	In accordance with the U.K. Modern Slavery Act of 2015, the Australia Modern Slavery Act of 2018 and the Norway Transparency Act of 2022, our U.K., Australia and Norway affiliates prepared an Annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, a Modern Slavery Statement, respectively..	Our annual conflict minerals filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission provides disclosures regarding supply sources of gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum.Web link.Our approach to respecting supply chain human rightsWeb link.Human Rights Due Diligence GuideWeb link.Labour Rights Risk Identification in the Supply ChainWeb link.Supply Chain Library of Questions and ResourcesWeb link.Annual Slavery and Human Trafficking StatementPDF link.Modern Slavery StatementWeb link.Our approach to respecting human rightsA woman staring out past the frame.Four woman standing next to each other looking at something out of frame.Our communitiesExxonMobil’s Environment Policy and the Protect Tomorrow. Today. guiding principle serve as the foundation of our efforts, which are informed by a scientific understanding of the environmental impact of our operations, as well as an understanding of the social and economic needs of the communities in which we operate. We seek to contribute to the social and economic progress of these communities and believe that respecting human rights, managing our impacts on communities and making valued social investments are integral to the success of our business.Managing socioeconomic impactsOur integrated socioeconomic management approach supports the early identification of potential socioeconomic impacts and opportunities, including human rights, as well as the comprehensive planning and effective implementation of measures and advancements that avoid, reduce or remedy risks from our operations. The core socioeconomic elements of our integrated approach include identification and assessment of potential impacts; human rights; community engagement and grievance management; community health and safety; local economic development; land use, resettlement and livelihood restoration; cultural heritage; and Indigenous peoples. These elements are often interconnected and are best managed in an integrated manner to develop effective approaches to managing risks and opportunities in a broad range of settings.Impact identification and assessmentExxonMobil’s projects and operations around the world provide socioeconomic benefits within and beyond the communities where we operate. While there are inherent risks in any type of development or operation, we seek to avoid those risks, reduce them to acceptable levels, or remedy the impacts. Our corporate Environmental Aspects Guide addresses identification and assessment of significant environmental and socioeconomic aspects consistent with our Environment Policy.We use core processes to systematically identify, assess, manage and monitor environmental and socioeconomic risks and opportunities throughout the life cycles of our assets including: .	Environmental Aspects Assessment. .	Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment. .	Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Management Plans. We engage with local communities and stakeholders to incorporate feedback, scientific understanding and other due diligence into these processes to enable safe and responsible operations. We periodically update these assessments to reflect any changes to operational complexity or socioeconomic sensitivities, amending management plans where needed. PDF link.Environmental Aspects Guide (EAG)Web link.Our approach to impact identification and assessmentCommunity health, safety and securityWe integrate community health, safety and security elements into our impact assessments as a key component of our socioeconomic management approach. Where appropriate, our Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Management Plans include Community Health, Safety and Security Plans.For example, in Papua New Guinea, our Community Health, Safety and Security Management Plan includes a summary of the identified risks, as well as mitigation and management measures. It also includes the monitoring required to determine the effectiveness of these measures. The plan considers risks, including those associated with road traffic; vector-related diseases; soil, water and sanitation-related diseases and cultural health practices.Web link.Our approach to community health, safety and securityTwo ExxonMobil employees monitoring a water system and writing down the results on a clipboard.Community engagement 
and grievance managementExxonMobil works collaboratively and transparently with local communities to promote positive, long-term relationships. We consult with local groups and individuals regularly and we seek to have our stakeholders effectively represented as community concerns are discussed and decisions are made. Our engagement process is tailored to local communities to help provide effective, accessible and culturally appropriate channels for exchanging information and proactively identifying issues or concerns. Examples of activities in our engagement process include open houses, community gatherings and individual meetings.By integrating the results of these discussions into our decisions, we can help avoid or reduce potential impacts on communities, enhance benefits, support effective investments, avoid delays and resolve issues at the local level.Our ongoing community engagement includes a grievance-management process that provides a diverse set of platforms for individuals or communities to raise concerns. They include direct, in-person and electronic engagement and the use of third-party proxies such as civil society organizations and nongovernmental associations. We dedicate personnel to map, track, analyze, respond to and resolve community grievances in a timely manner in a way that seeks to support confidentiality and non-retaliation.Our grievance management practices are guided by the World Bank International Finance Corporation and Ipieca. For more information on how our process and practices for stakeholder engagement and grievance management support our integrated approach to human rights due diligence, see the section on Human Rights.Web link.World Bank International Finance CorporationWeb link.Our approach to managing community engagement and grievancesTwo ExxonMobil employees sitting down and conversing with community members. Local economic developmentExxonMobil works closely with local communities to understand the unique needs of the areas where we operate and to identify and help contribute to long-term, positive local economic and social development. Our approach to local economic development integrates local content and local community investment into project planning, execution and operations.Local content Hiring locally helps us meet our staffing needs and advances local economic development and education. We aim to enhance the long-term capability of the local workforce. Our approach includes recruitment, training and succession planning for national employees. We hire local individuals and help them develop technical and leadership skills that will benefit them throughout their careers, with ExxonMobil or future employers. Our development program includes training in relevant technical and vocational skills, health and safety, environmental protection, management skills and business conduct.We understand the importance of building and maintaining a qualified and competitive supply chain in the countries in which we operate. Our approach to local supplier development and utilization includes purchasing goods and services from local suppliers and building their capabilities to help create a competitive local industrial base.We work with a range of stakeholders, including host country governments, nongovernmental organizations and local communities to support the development of local vendors. To become a supplier for ExxonMobil a local vendor must meet our robust safety, technical, environmental and human rights expectations and requirements. When possible, we work with businesses owned by local individuals, women and members of historically disadvantaged communities to help them become competitive vendors that contribute to our business and the long-term economic progress of the community. Investments in local communitiesWe support economic development of local communities with our investments. We engage and collaborate with community members, stakeholders and host governments to develop meaningful projects that help build and sustain economic growth while improving social conditions. We consider the development goals of each community when deciding where, when and how best to invest.In addition to investments in local capacity building, ExxonMobil contributes to voluntary social investments worldwide. For more information on our global contributions including donations from the ExxonMobil Corporation, visit our 2021 Worldwide Giving Report.More information on ExxonMobil’s approach to local content can be found on our website. Additional information on workforce and Supply Chain Management can be found in our Investing in People report, and Supply Chain Management, respectively.Web link.Our approach to contributing to local economic developmentPDF link.Investing in PeopleWeb link.Supply Chain ManagementPDF link.2021 Worldwide Giving ReportWeb link.Our approach to investing in local communitiesTwo ExxonMobil employees walking towards the camera.Guyana workforce development For example, in Guyana, providing opportunities for local hiring and workforce development is a vital part of our commitment to enhancing the economic and social benefits associated with our activities. Our strategy to develop a diverse and talented workforce has two components—the recruitment and development of Guyanese personnel who can play a role in our local operations, and the continued development of a global pool of talent capable of meeting our future business needs wherever we operate. We apply proven training curriculums, industry best practices and leading technology to support local workforce development. There were over 4,400 Guyanese supporting ExxonMobil’s Guyana affiliate Esso Exploration and Production Guyana Ltd. (EEPGL) oil and gas activities in Guyana during the first half of 2022, representing approximately 64% of the total number of people supporting those activities.Land use, resettlement and livelihood restorationWe respect property rights in the countries and communities where we operate. We aim to minimize involuntary resettlement through a disciplined site selection process.Whenever land is necessary for projects, we adhere to applicable host country regulatory requirements governing land acquisition, in addition to our own internal standards. If projects are externally financed, we also adhere to lender stipulations regarding land use, access and resettlement requirements.To the extent practicable, we seek to avoid involuntary resettlement and minimize the need for voluntary resettlement. To minimize the need for resettlement we assess multiple potential locations for our operations based on criteria such as availability, accessibility and safety, as well as environmental and social considerations.If physical or economic displacement occurs, we develop and implement location-specific and culturally appropriate resettlement action plans (RAPs). We consult with landowners and other potentially impacted individuals or households. We survey and map housing structures, gardens, wildlife, sources for nature-based products, harvesting areas and other assets to support the development of RAPs and effective livelihood restoration programs.Web link.Our approach to managing land use, resettlement and livelihood restorationIndigenous peoplesIn locations inhabited or historically used by Indigenous peoples, we work with communities to respect their cultures and customs. ExxonMobil seeks to understand the perspectives of Indigenous peoples through open consultation and we consider their feedback into project planning, design, execution and operations. We support local employment initiatives and cultural heritage programs through local content development and strategic community investments. Our interactions with Indigenous peoples around the world are consistent with the goals of the following frameworks:Web link.International Labor Organization Convention 169 Concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent CountriesWeb link.United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous PeoplesWeb link.International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Environmental and Social SustainabilityPDF link.World Bank Operational Policy and Bank Procedure on Indigenous PeoplesExxonMobil is committed to conducting meaningful consultations with Indigenous peoples, incorporating traditional knowledge and land use information into our plans, and promoting community engagement programs that respect traditions and cultures. Meaningful engagement is a key aspect of Free, Prior and Informed Consent, a specific right that pertains to Indigenous peoples and is recognized in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.One of our objectives is to determine how Indigenous peoples prefer to engage. Communities may decide whether they want us to meet with elected leaders, community elders or other representatives, and whether those engagements are conducted in a public forum, either formally or informally. We enable communities to establish their preference for how often and how long their members meet with ExxonMobil representatives, and who will provide their viewpoints or represent their wishes.Web link.Our approach to working with Indigenous peoplesCultural heritageWe look for opportunities to help preserve cultural heritage by managing the potential impacts of our operations and by making culturally appropriate community investments. At ExxonMobil, our respect for the cultural heritage and customs of local communities carries into our business practices from project design and execution through ongoing operations. As we design our projects, we consider cultural and spiritual considerations, heritage sites, biodiversity conservation, traditional knowledge and efficient use of resources.We value and honor the diverse cultural histories of the areas where we operate. To do that, we use a cultural heritage identification process to identify potential sites of cultural significance. If the recovery or relocation of an artifact is appropriate, ExxonMobil develops tailored procedures in consultation with technical experts, local communities and host country government officials. We leverage relevant studies to deepen the knowledge among our workforce and provide training to our construction and field contractor personnel to identify different types of cultural heritage in the areas where we work.Our approach to preserving cultural heritageClose up view of brightly painted pottery, including vases and bowls.A Athabasca Chipewyan First Nation woman dancing in traditional clothing in a field of grass.Partnering with Indigenous peoplesIImperial Oil (IOL) has consistently demonstrated high standards, innovation and leadership in Canada’s energy industry for more than 140 years and is critical to ExxonMobil’s business in Canada. Core to IOL’s strategy for collective success and delivering value is advancing social innovation and engagement by meaningfully supporting and contributing to local and Indigenous communities.IOL is a Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business procurement champion, placing the company in a select group of corporations that have committed to increasing supply chain opportunities for Indigenous businesses. For example, IOL developed a business partnership with Athabasca Chipewyan First Nation that identified heavy-duty welding as an area for strategic partnership. We are proud of the growth and opportunity that our partners have accomplished, and we continuously work to expand our relations with Indigenous communities throughout Canada.Web link.Canadian Council for Aboriginal BusinessSocial contributions and philanthropyExxonMobil’s community contributions are intended to address strategic local priorities where we do business around the world. We work with governments, other companies and nongovernmental organizations to help support local communities and broader society in areas such as education, health and the environment. Our corporate and ExxonMobil Foundation contributions support a range of programs, including three key areas of concentration: combating malaria, promoting education (in particular STEM education) and supporting women’s economic empowerment.Performance and initiativesIn 2021, we contributed $163 million to communities around the world, including donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, the ExxonMobil Foundation and employee and retiree giving through the Foundation’s matching gift and volunteer programs.Global community contributions 2021[10][11]ExxonMobil has contributed 84.5 million U.S. dollars to civic and community, 26 million to employee and retiree giving, 15.7 million to health and environment, 14.1 million to higher education, 8.3 million to pre-college education, 5.7 million to workforce development and other education, 3.3 million to workplace giving, and 2.6 million to women's economic opportunities. Of this, 18.8 million U.S. dollars has been contributed in Canada, 60.4 million has been contributed in the United States, 5 million has been contributed in Latin America, 26.5 million has been contributed in Europe, 24 million has been contributed in Africa and the Middle East, and 9.4 million has been contributed in Asia Pacific. Total contributions do not include environmental capital and operating expenditures. Combating malariaAs a major employer and investor in many malaria-endemic countries, ExxonMobil has been part of a longstanding international effort to prevent, treat and cure the disease. Through a coordinated, comprehensive effort, significant progress has been made over the past two decades in reducing the impacts of malaria on families and communities.Since 2000, ExxonMobil has provided more than $170 million in funding for antimalarial programs that have reached more than 185 million people. Our support has resulted in the distribution of more than 15.1 million bed nets, 5.6 million doses of antimalarial treatments and 4 million rapid diagnostic kits, as well as training for nearly 900,000 health workers. Thanks to the work of the many collaborations with governments, businesses and civil society, malarial deaths have been reduced by more than half since 2000 and infection rates have drastically declined. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 1.5 billion cases of malaria have been prevented since 2000[12].In October 2021, the WHO authorized use of a malaria vaccine for children, a potential breakthrough in the fight against malaria. ExxonMobil was one of several organizations that helped support the development of this first-ever malaria vaccine.Young girl smiles at the camera while lifting a mosquito bed net above her head.ExxonMobil helps raise awareness about malaria in Angola as part of an annual World Malaria Day event.Guyanese First Lady Aril Ali (l) sits beside U.S. Ambassador to Guyana Sarah-Ann Lynch and Esso Exploration and Production Guyana Limited Lead Country Manager Alistair Routledge at a 2021 event launching the HerVenture business app for women, which was developed by the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women in partnership with the ExxonMobil Foundation.Women’s economic opportunityExxonMobil invests in organizations around the world dedicated to bolstering women’s economic empowerment. Our supplier diversity program began in the U.S 50 years ago and has steadily expanded globally. Increasing women-owned businesses stimulates innovation, enhances competition in the supply chain and builds customer and supplier loyalty by supporting the communities in which we operate. We focus investments on developing women entrepreneurs, implementing programs on financial literacy, and providing access to savings accounts and improving productivity of women farmers. ExxonMobil and the ExxonMobil Foundation have supported women in more than 90 countries seeking to fulfill their economic potential and drive economic and social change in their communities. From 2005 through 2021, we have invested more than $127 million to help community-based and global partners implement programs that directly benefit women.For instance, our funding has allowed 5,000 female entrepreneurs to benefit from the nonprofit Solar Sister’s business training while bringing life-altering energy solutions to their local communities. This effort has reached more than 1.7 million people and created a positive ripple effect on health, education and the environment.Meanwhile, more than 2,800 women entrepreneurs have strengthened their skills and grown their businesses by participating in the Road to Growth program, a collaboration between the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women and ExxonMobil Foundation. Three-quarters of the participants in Nigeria increased their savings and more than half increased their business revenues, even during the pandemic. For the past several years, ExxonMobil has invested approximately $500 million annually in women-owned businesses. ExxonMobil is also a founding member of the Global Business Coalition for Women’s Economic Empowerment[13], a private-sector consortium that fosters economic change for women.Web link.Solar SisterWeb link.Road to GrowthWeb link.EmpowerWomenA teenage student and his teacher conversing while walking down a school hallway.ExxonMobil has supported the National Math and Science Initiative since its founding in 2007, a program that has touched the lives of more than 2 million students.EducationSince 2000, we have contributed $1.57 billion to education programs around the world, including about $28 million in 2021[14]. In Angola, for example, educational challenges include the shortage of educational facilities. A collaboration among RISE International, Educate A Child and the ExxonMobil Foundation led to the construction of 26 primary schools in Angola for nearly 30,000 out-of-school children in the provinces of Luanda, Benguela and Bié. The final project was completed in 2021.In the U.S., we continue to support the National Math and Science Initiative (NMSI) in its efforts to bring college education training programs to students and teachers across the country. ExxonMobil helped launch NMSI in 2007 to improve math and science education by providing a comprehensive program designed to increase student participation and performance in Advanced Placement coursework. The organization also provides educators with hands-on training, strategies and resources to raise academic rigor and prepare students for advanced critical and creative thinking.Since 2007, NMSI has partnered with more than 1,300 U.S. school systems, training more than 6,500 teachers and touching the lives of more than 2 million students[15]. NMSI recently expanded its programming into several Texas and New Mexico high schools in the Permian Basin.Web link.RISE InternationalWeb link.Educate A ChildWeb link.National Math and Science InitiativeEmployee participationOur employees are passionate about engaging with their neighbors and contributing to the communities where they live and work. Many are involved with local nonprofit organizations helping to build homes, serving as volunteer firefighters or providing pro bono legal services, as examples. Through our volunteer involvement program in the U.S., the ExxonMobil Foundation provides $500 grants to charitable organizations for every 20 hours an employee or retiree provides in volunteer service, up to four times per year. Some of our international affiliates maintain similar volunteer programs. Performance and initiativesMore than 3,900 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and their families volunteered approximately 135,000 hours in 2021 to over 1,450 charitable organizations across 19 countries. More than 2,700 employees, retirees, directors and surviving spouses donated more than $11.5 million to 663 U.S. colleges and universities, as well as minority scholarship programs. The ExxonMobil Foundation matched those donations with more than $11 million in grants in 2021.Web link.Worldwide Giving ReportTwo ExxonMobil employees picking up trash on a beach.Two men stand outside of a Mobil gas station in front of a Mobil delivery cart with many bottles of product.Our global supply chainExxonMobil is committed to promoting inclusive sourcing, respecting human rights and working to minimize impacts to the environment in our supply chain. We seek to work with suppliers that share our commitment.Our Supplier, Vendor and Contractor Expectations call for the operations and business practices of our suppliers to be conducted in a manner consistent with the International Labor Organization 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (ILO Declaration) and the goals of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). They also communicate our expectation that they comply with all local laws and regulations. Our suppliers, vendors and contractors are held to stringent compliance, anti-corruption, conflict of interest, safety and other guidelines in order to remain in good standing.Web link.Supplier, Vendor and Contractor ExpectationsWeb link.International Labor Organization 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (ILO Declaration) PDF link..United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs)An ExxonMobil employee uses a handheld radio to speak with someone.Managing our supply chainTo integrate sustainability into our practices, ExxonMobil leverages existing stewardship and purchasing processes and systems. Plans and initiatives are reviewed to identify opportunities related to inclusive sourcing and environmental performance as well as to identify potential human rights impacts within category families. Objectives are established annually. ExxonMobil utilizes a source-to-contract platform that facilitates consideration of sustainability in the acquisition process. Steps have been included to assist in identifying diverse suppliers and incorporate sustainability elements into commercial activities.Not only do we review a potential supplier’s operational, technical and financial performance, we also perform compliance due diligence. We screen potential suppliers across compliance areas such as sanctions, anti-corruption and human trafficking using third-party information.Web link.Our approach to managing our supply chainSupplier diversity and inclusive sourcingWe promote inclusive sourcing by championing local, small and diverse suppliers in order to increase competition and innovation while striving to make positive impacts on communities. Where there is a lack of diverse, small or local suppliers, ExxonMobil aims to contribute to building capacity within our supply chain. We are committed to economic empowerment and aim to increase the number of women-owned and historically disadvantaged-owned businesses in our global supply chain.An ExxonMobil employee looks down at a paper document.1971–2021 50 years Supplier Diversity logoCelebrating 50 years of supplier diversityExxonMobil celebrated the 50th anniversary of our focus on supplier diversity in 2021. Working with diverse suppliers creates new perspectives, ideas and practices that benefit communities and ExxonMobil.ExxonMobil invites U.S. businesses owned by traditionally underrepresented groups to express interest in becoming an ExxonMobil supplier through our U.S. supplier diversity database. ExxonMobil works with organizations such as the National Minority Supplier Development Council, the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council, the National Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Chamber of Commerce and the National Veteran-Owned Business Association to help identify and develop relationships with certified diverse suppliers in the U.S. ExxonMobil aims to increase the number of women-owned businesses in our global supply chain. We work with WEConnect International, an organization that identifies, educates, registers and certifies businesses outside the U.S. that are at least 51% owned, managed and controlled by one or more women.Our supplier diversity efforts continue to grow. To mark the 50th anniversary, ExxonMobil launched initiatives designed to expand the use of diverse suppliers including creating an Inclusive Sourcing Advisory Council with senior business line leaders to identify opportunities and increase engagement with diverse suppliers, creating the “EM Mentor, Advocate, Teach” program to help those suppliers build capacity and gain exposure. We work with API to expand supplier diversity throughout the oil and gas industry.Web link.U.S. supplier diversity databaseWeb link.National Minority Supplier Development CouncilWeb link.Women’s Business Enterprise National CouncilWeb link.National Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Chamber of CommerceWeb link.National Veteran-Owned Business AssociationWeb link.WEConnect InternationalHuman rights in our supply chainAs discussed in the Respecting Human Rights section of this report, we respect human rights and expect the same of our suppliers. We leverage current processes and systems.to assess our direct suppliers for potential human rights risks in the supply chain. These risks focus on workers’ rights, including safe and healthy working conditions, as well as the elimination of forced labor, child labor and discrimination.Web link.Our approach to managing our supply chainEnvironmental performance in our supply chainWe seek and aspire to work with innovative suppliers to minimize environmental impacts in our supply chain. We incorporate environmental considerations when developing cost models and sourcing strategies. Examples include reducing energy use and incorporating recycled content into packaging materials. We also assess and engage with suppliers through relationship management.Environmental performance is an important consideration in our commercial decisions. Since 2021, sustainability questions have been embedded in our sourcing platform and considered in bid evaluation and supplier selection. Supply chain human rightsOur Statement on Labor and the Workplace articulates our support of the principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles on Rights at Work, including elimination of child labor, forced labor and workplace discrimination, the recognition of the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining and a safe and healthy workplace.Through our regimented procurement process, we seek to do business with suppliers who observe similar standards. Purchases arranged by our global procurement organization include contract language that requires adherence to all applicable laws and regulations. Furthermore, requests for quotations issued by our procurement staff typically include clauses relating to the prohibition of forced or child labor and the payment of wages in accordance with local laws. Participants are required to adhere to those requirements. Auditing is another important component of supply-chain transparency. Our contracts typically require suppliers and all their subcontractors to allow ExxonMobil to access all offices and work locations and to interview supplier and subcontractor personnel. We select a certain percentage of suppliers annually for such audits, which include a compliance review on contract provisions. Human trafficking issues have received considerable attention in recent years. ExxonMobil proactively manages supply chain risks, including those associated with human trafficking, through our Standards of Business Conduct, our Statement on Labor and the Workplace and our due diligence processes. We also seek to reduce the underlying conditions that lead to human trafficking by working to engender economic growth and personal prosperity.A row of lockers and a recycling bin in a Papau New Guinea warehouse demonstrates the team's packaging reuse approach.Packaging reuse approach in Papua New GuineaAt the ExxonMobil PNG Limited warehouse close to Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea, the operations team developed a structured approach to.reusing packaging waste, leading to both monetary savings and landfill avoidance. Following a waste audit at the site, the team developed waste reduction strategies including: .	Reusing packaging material and foams between the warehouse and other internal organizations..	Reusing wooden shipping pallets between the freight forwarder and the warehouse, reducing the need to purchase new pallets..	Recycling damaged pallets at a small local recycling business. “Waste reduction is one of the key pillars of our Warehouse Operations 6S program, Star Awards. That initiative combined with our recycling program, drives adoption of more sustainable and cost-effective practices around the world. The Papua New Guinea team has done an outstanding job embracing and expanding their waste management program.”Jessica Sanders, Global Procurement Supply Chain ManagerPerformance and initiatives[16]In 2021, we surpassed $5.5 billion in annual spending with local suppliers in select countries, and with diverse suppliers and small businesses globally. We spent $2.4 billion of the $5.5 billion in the U.S. with businesses owned by minorities, women, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals, veterans, service-disabled veterans, people with disabilities and small businesses. Our supplier diversity program continues to expand internationally—we spent $421 million with women-owned and Indigenous-owned businesses around the world. During the year, new training was introduced to ExxonMobil employees to build skills in the areas of inclusive sourcing, human rights and environmental performance in the supply chain. More than 2,100 employees completed this training.In Guyana, the Centre for Local Business Development launched a women entrepreneurship program called “Accelerate-Her” with the financial support of ExxonMobil. It offers Guyanese women the opportunity to enable the growth of small businesses through tailored workshops, access to one-on-one business advisory services, mentoring, pitch development and a strong and supportive peer-learning environment for professional women. This innovative program works in concert with ExxonMobil Foundation’s Women Economic Opportunity Initiative and its partnerships with the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women’s Road to Growth program and Counterpart International’s Global Women in Management training course.Web link.Accelerate-HerTwo women of the Accelerate Her program review a calendar on a table in front of them.Three ExxonMobil employees look at a computer in front of them. Through the window behind them stands a large operating facility.