LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO, EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION “Our greatest strength is developing the technology and techniques that maximize value while increasing safety, efﬁciency, and environmental performance.” Rex W. Tillerson, Chairman and CEO Keynote Address at CERAWeek, March 9, 2012 In an era of global change and market volatil.ity, one thing is certain: citizens around the world will continue to seek economic and social progress to build a better quality of life for themselves and their families. The role of secure, reliable, and affordable energy in sup.porting these aspirations will be critical. At ExxonMobil, we are proud of the role we play in supplying the energy to meet the world’s needs. These needs are expected to grow by about 30 percent by 2040, as econo.mies expand and the world’s population approaches 9 billion people. Providing this energy in a safe and environmentally respon.sible manner, and at the enormous scale that will be required, is one of the great challenges facing the world in the coming decades. This Corporate Citizenship Report explains how ExxonMobil is playing its role in meeting this challenge. In it, we document our plans, initiatives, and performance related to safety, the environment, economic development, corporate governance, and social progress. Integrity in action As you will read in this report, ExxonMobil’s approach to business and corporate citizen.ship is built upon a commitment to integrity in everything we do. Simply put, integrity is a com.mitment to do the right thing, the right way, every time—from business operations and technical challenges to the way we manage our business partnerships and engage with stakeholders. Integrity in our industry makes us more respon.sible, more innovative, and more productive. In the decades ahead, we believe this will be essential for meeting the world’s energy needs—and for fulﬁlling our responsibility to future generations. This year’s report includes two case studies that demonstrate integrity in action. At our Kearl oil sands project in Canada (page 10) and at our integrated reﬁnery and chemical facility in Singapore (page 48), we are apply.ing our global management standards to help us engage communities, and improve envi.ronmental and safety performance. We hope these “site visits” will provide you, our reader, with a clearer understanding of our practices. Comprehensive risk management Risk management is another key element in our approach to corporate citizenship. Few industries are called upon to manage as many complex risks as the energy sector. ExxonMobil has operations around the world, in some of the harshest climates and environ.ments. What makes our business successful is our commitment to carefully and systematically identify, plan for, and manage risk. We do this through a rigorous management approach— our Operations Integrity Management System, or OIMS, outlined on page 35. OIMS integrates safety, security, health, environmental, and social risk management into every aspect of our business. This year, some of the trends in our safety and environmental performance did not meet our expectations and we are taking action to address them. We will not stop working to achieve our goal of driving acci.dents and incidents with a real impact to zero. Stakeholder engagement Finally, our commitment to corporate citizenship is fundamental to our business, government, and community relationships. The need for energy—vital for economic development and human progress—must be met while addressing environmental and social impacts associated with increasing demand for energy resources. We believe addressing this dual challenge requires constructive and respectful engage.ment with our stakeholders. We do this in a number of ways. On the issue of climate change, for example, we participated as an observer in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change meeting in Durban, South Africa (page 25), and we maintain ongoing discussions with legislators and ofﬁ cials on policy and technology options to address rising greenhouse gas emissions. In communities where we are producing shale natural gas, we are working with city councils, neighbors, homeowners, and regulators to open lines of communication and share facts and information (page 14). In nations around the world, we are reaching out using engagement methods as diverse as the communities where we operate. For instance, in countries like Papua New Guinea, we have developed out.reach strategies that are sensitive to the local culture and customs (page 47). This report itself is part of our commitment to engagement with those who take an interest in our company. In the following pages, you will ﬁ nd a summary of our efforts to communicate with stakeholders on our shared priorities; these include responsible unconventional resource development, water use, biodiversity, trans.parency, and our dialogue and engagement with indigenous communities, among others. In each case, we know that engagement on these items leads to stronger, more sustain.able business performance. At ExxonMobil, we believe that high standards and clear metrics are critical to discharging our responsibilities as a leading global energy producer and corporate citizen. We invite you to read about our citizenship performance in this report, and we welcome your comments. About ExxonMobil Taking on the world’s toughest energy challenges. Using innovation and technology, ExxonMobil delivers energy and petrochemical products to meet the world’s growing demand. Our employees, operations integrity, technical expertise, ﬁnancial strength, and global reach provide a competitive advantage across the companies that make up our Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical business lines. Within these businesses, we operate facilities or market products in nearly all of the world’s countries and explore for oil and gas on six continents. Our extensive research and development programs support our operations, enable continuous improvement in each of our business lines, and explore new and emerging energy sources and technologies. ExxonMobil’s 2011 Global Economic Contribution Capital and Shareholder exploration distributions expenditures $29 billion $37 billion Government Production, taxes and manufacturing, and duties office expenses $108 billion $52 billion Oil and Gas Industry Contributions to the U.S. Economy Jobs Supported Source: PricewaterhouseCoopers, May 2011; accessible at api.org EXXONMOBIL PROCESSES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Across ExxonMobil’s global operations, we use consistent management standards to help ensure operations integrity and support our decision-making. These systems—a selection of which is highlighted below—set high expectations for operating excellence at our sites. Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS). Establishes common expectations for addressing safety, security, health, envi.ronmental, and social risks. OIMS provides a systematic, structured, and disciplined approach to measure progress and track accountability across business lines, facili.ties, and projects (page 35). Standards of Business Conduct. Deﬁne the global ethical conduct of the Corporation and its majority-owned sub.sidiaries. These Standards uphold values related to human rights, labor, the environ.ment, and anti-corruption (page 34). Controls Integrity Management System. Provides a structured approach to assess.ing and measuring ﬁnancial control risks, developing procedures for mitigating concerns, monitoring compliance with standards, and reporting results (page 35). ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS). Framework to guide capital project development and execution (page 13). Best Practices in External Affairs. Strategic planning and management tool for practicing excellence in community relationships at every level (page 46). National Content Development Guidelines. Provide the key elements of a national content strategy and plan, including the models and tools for the successful devel.opment of national content (page 39). Environmental Management Standards. Establish a consistent approach to environ.mental management for the business lines and projects (page 13). Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard. One of the Environmental Management Standards, this framework helps the upstream companies manage socioeconomic issues from exploration and production to decommissioning (page 45). Environmental Business Plans. Corporate-wide framework for addressing environmental requirements and expecta.tions as part of the annual business cycle (page 13). Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA). A formal analysis to identify key risks and develop strategies to appropriately manage these risks throughout the asset life cycle (page 18). Global Energy Management System (GEMS). A management system that system.atically identiﬁ es and addresses operational energy efﬁ ciency opportunities for the Down.stream and Chemical business lines (page 23). Production Operations Energy Manage.ment System (POEMS). Incorporates a systematic approach to energy management to improve energy efﬁ ciency in the Upstream business (page 23). Product Stewardship Information Management System. Applies common global processes to capture and com.municate information on the safe handling, transport, use, and disposal of our prod.ucts (page 28). Technology Management Systems. Processes for technology investment that follow a gated management system from early technical innovation to ﬁ nal deployment (page 20). GLOBAL INTEGRATED OPERATIONS Upstream Our upstream asset base is geographically diverse with exploration and production acreage in 36 countries, production sites in 23 countries, and sales of natural gas in 32 countries. Crude Oil & Natural Gas Production Upstream Exploration Development Research Natural Gas Customers 4.5 million oil equivalent barrels of net oil and gas production per day Downstream  Chemical  As the largest global reﬁner, ExxonMobil has  ExxonMobil is a leader in the chemical  interests in 36 reﬁneries in 21 countries, sup  industry, with interests in 51 wholly  plying fuels, lubricants, and other high-value  owned and joint venture manufacturing  products and feedstocks to our customers.  locations worldwide.  Feedstocks  Refining & Supply  Research & Development Products  Research & Lubricants & Fuels Engineering Specialties Marketing Products Customers  Products  Customers  6.4 25 million barrels million metric tons per day of petroleum of chemical prime product sales product sales UPSTREAM DOWNSTREAM CHEMICAL The Outlook for Energy: A View to 2040 Each year, ExxonMobil takes a comprehensive look at long-term trends in energy demand, supply, emissions, and technology to guide our own investment decisions. In 2012, we extended our Outlook to the year 2040. The Outlook projects that global energy demand in 2040 will be about 30 percent higher than in 2010, even with signiﬁcant gains in energy efﬁciency. It is clear that expanding prosperity across a world with a growing population requires access to reliable and affordable energy supplies. From cars to cell phones, pharmaceuticals to plastics, and air conditioning to water heating, energy is a fundamental part of people’s lives. Access to reliable energy enables modern life and human progress. Population and economic growth drive demand Population growth is one reason why ExxonMobil sees global energy demand rising by about 30 percent from 2010 to 2040. By 2040, there will be nearly 9 billion people on the planet, up from about 7 billion today. The world’s economies will continue to grow with varying rates. ExxonMobil esti.mates OECD1 economies will expand about 2 percent per year on average through 2040, as North America, Europe, and other regions gradually strengthen their economies. Non-OECD economies will grow much faster: almost 4.5 percent per year. Signiﬁ cant energy efﬁciency gains across economies throughout the world will keep the pace of demand growth substantially lower than that of economic growth. OECD energy demand will ﬂatten through 2040, while Non-OECD demand will rise by 60 percent and represent the vast majority of the increase in global energy use. Evolving supply of energy sources to meet demand Demand for all forms of energy is projected to rise at an average annual rate of 0.9 percent from 2010 to 2040. Oil and other liquid fuels will remain the world’s largest energy source in 2040, meeting about one-third of the demand. Substantial supply increases will come from sources such as global deepwater and oil sands production. The fastest-growing major energy source will be natural gas, with global demand rising by about 60 percent from 2010 to 2040. By 2025, natural gas—which emits up to 60 percent less carbon dioxide (CO2) than coal when used for electricity generation—will have overtaken coal as the second most utilized fuel source after oil. Global demand for less carbon-intensive fuels—natural gas, nuclear, and renewables— will rise at a faster-than-average rate. For example, nuclear power will grow about 2.2 percent per year—a substantial increase, but lower than projections made before the 2011 tsunami damage to the Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan. Wind, solar, and biofuels also will see strong growth. By 2040, they will account for about 4 percent of global demand. Wind is the fastest-growing energy source as projected in the Outlook, rising at about 8 percent per year on average through 2040. Meeting global transportation needs through liquid fuels One of the most profound shifts in energy use through 2040 will come from the trans.portation sector. The proliferation of more efﬁcient vehicles will result in ﬂ attening energy demand for personal transportation, even as the number of personal vehicles in the world doubles to 1.6 billion, mostly from growth in China and other Non-OECD countries. In spite of this shift, economic growth will increase demand for trucks and heavy-duty vehicles. As a result, starting in 2030, these vehicles will use more fuel than all personal vehicles combined. Overall, global energy demand for trans.portation will rise by nearly 45 percent from 2010 to 2040. In 2040, 90 percent of global transportation will run on liquid petroleum-based fuels, compared to 95 percent today. This high percentage is driven by the fact that liquid fuels contain more energy per volume compared to other sources of energy used in vehicles. 1Refer to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) website for a listing of its members, oecd.org. Global demand for electricity Global Progress Drives Demand Population Gross domestic product (GDP) Energy demand surges (billion) (trillion 2005$) (quadrillion BTUs) Non-OECD Non-OECD Non-OECD OECD Utilities and other electricity produc-OECD OECD Annual growth Annual growth Annual growth 2010–2040 average 0.8% 2010–2040 average 2.9% 2010–2040 average 0.9% ers transform different types of primary energy—everything from natural gas to coal 18 120 1400 to wind—into electricity used in homes and businesses. Global demand for electricity will Energy savings through efficiency gains to 2040 rise by 80 percent from 2010 to 2040. As a result of greater efﬁciencies in power plants, 9 60 600 demand for fuels to make that electricity will rise by only about 45 percent, mostly in China and other Non-OECD countries. Natural gas, nuclear, and renewables will see strong growth through 2040 as generators shift to lower.1990 2015 2040 1990 2015 2040 1990 2015 2040 carbon fuel sources globally. Efﬁciency gains slow the growth Energy Use Evolves Over Timeof energy-related CO2 emissions Percent Biomass Coal Oil Gas Hydro Nuclear Other renewablesExxonMobil expects global energy-related emissions to level off by 2030, even as overall energy use continues to increase. This trend 100 is the result of signiﬁcant improvements in energy efﬁciency, plus shifts toward natural gas and other less carbon-intensive fuels, as efforts continue to manage the risks posed by rising greenhouse gas emissions. By 2040, OECD emissions of CO2 will be 50 20 percent lower than in 2010, while Non-OECD countries will account for more than 70 percent of global CO2 emissions, com.pared to 60 percent in 2010. Providing solutions to advance  1800  1850  1900  1950  2000  2040  human progress  Source: Smil. Energy Transitions (1800-1960)  During the past 100 years, we have seen a  dramatic change in the amount and nature of global energy use. Advances in technol.ogy have played a huge role in shaping the demand for energy, and the types of supplies used to meet that demand. To help people prosper in the decades ahead, the world will need to expand supplies of reliable, afford.able energy, while ensuring these supplies are provided in a safe, secure, and environ.mentally responsible manner. The scale of this challenge is enormous, and we remain dedicated to ﬁnding practical, broad-based solutions. To learn about ExxonMobil’s contri.butions in these areas, see page 22. Explore enhanced web content at exxonmobil.com/citizenship Natural Gas Production by Type Natural Gas Demand by Region (billions of cubic feet per day) (billions of cubic feet per day) Non-OECDUnconventional OECD 600 600 Conventional 300  300 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2000 2020 2040 Report Philosophy and Materiality As the world’s largest publicly traded oil and natural gas company, ExxonMobil’s primary role is to responsibly provide the energy needed to sustain and improve standards of living for people worldwide, while delivering a return to our shareholders. Our 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report presents a holistic picture of how opera.tions integrity underpins our performance in key citizenship focus areas: Environmental Performance (page 12); Managing Climate Change Risks (page 22); Safety, Health, and the Workplace (page 26); Corporate Governance (page 32); Economic Development (page 38); and Human Rights and Managing Community Impacts (page 44). ExxonMobil is committed to addressing the challenge of sustainability—balancing economic growth, social development, and environmental protection so that future gener.ations are not compromised by actions taken today. Our corporate citizenship approach is designed to contribute to society’s broader sustainability objectives and to manage the impact of our operations on local economies, societies, and the environment. This report continues our annual practice of reporting on both our successes and challenges in delivering energy to meet growing demand while putting our corporate MATERIALITY ANALYSIS citizenship commitments into practice. Across our citizenship focus areas, we set high standards and strive to continu.ously improve by measuring progress. Our company will continue to reach out and engage stakeholders as we responsibly conduct our business. Reporting standards and scope This report was produced in accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010). The majority of these indi.cators are also consistent with the indicators used by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (see our IPIECA/GRI index on page 50). The report covers ExxonMobil’s operations through December 31, 2011, unless otherwise indicated. The report uses both qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to explain our policies, programs, and practices. For environmental performance data, the units of measure are metric where noted. Financial information is reported in U.S. dollars. Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous afﬁ li.ates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, and Esso. For convenience and simplicity, those terms, and terms such as Corporation, company, our, we, us, and its, are sometimes used as abbreviated references to speciﬁ c afﬁliates or afﬁ liate groups. Assurance We believe third-party assurance provides an objective evaluation of how well we report our corporate citizenship information and gives our reporting processes addi.tional credibility. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) conducts annual third-party assurance of ExxonMobil’s safety, health, and environment reporting system. For the full assurance statement, see the inside back cover of this report. ExxonMobil’s materiality analysis process identiﬁ es economic, environ.mental, and social issues of particular interest and concern to both our stakeholders and business operations. Material issues may have a sig.niﬁ cant current or future impact on our company. We identify issues of external signiﬁ cance by monitoring stakeholder expectations and con.cerns through direct dialogue, public debate, legislation, international agreements, and feedback on our Corporate Citizenship Report. We also review international reporting standards and expectations, such as the United Nations Global Compact and Millennium Development Goals, to ensure a comprehensive, globally focused analysis. We determine priority issues by using a three-tiered review system that rates each issue based on its level of signiﬁcance to stakeholder groups and its potential impact on our business objectives. Through this annual analysis, we can monitor recurring issues and identify emerging ones. We address all our Tier 1 and Tier 2 issues in the Corporate Citizenship Report. ExxonMobil’s senior management team reviews the results of our materiality analysis, which shapes the content of this report. 3. Assess and rank Tier 1, Tier 2, 4. Develop Corporate Citizenship and Tier 3 priority issues Report content based on Tier 1 and Tier 2 issues Engagement Our approach to corporate citizenship starts with engagement. ExxonMobil has a diverse group of stakeholders with interests in our business performance. While our views and perspectives may not always align, we are committed to engaging in constructive dialogue. Effective stakeholder engagement depends upon relationships built on honest, timely, and transparent communication. We routinely meet with external stakeholders to help us identify issues most material to our business opera.tions and to maintain our license to operate. The dialogue developed between ExxonMobil and our key stakeholders allows us to better align our ﬁnancial, social, and environmental goals with the priorities of wider society. These discussions—and what we have learned from our stakeholders—help shape our approach. EXXONMOBIL STAKEHOLDERS We focus our worldwide engagement efforts on groups and individuals directly impacted by, or who have a direct impact on, our opera.tions. Our engagement takes many forms, including internal and external one-on-one and group dialogues and brieﬁngs; senior executive speeches; quarterly earnings teleconferences; community consultation ses.sions; email communications; our corporate blog exxonmobilperspectives.com; publi.cations such as the Corporate Citizenship Report, Summary Annual Report, and The Lamp; and content on our website. Integrated throughout this report are examples of how we engage with stakeholders in each of our citizenship focus areas. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT This symbol denotes stakeholder engagement examples within this report. EXTERNAL CITIZENSHIP ADVISORY PANEL In 2009, ExxonMobil created an External Assessment Panel to provide an independent review of our corporate citizenship reporting process. The panel reviewed and commented on the 2008, 2009, and 2010 Corporate Citizenship Reports. In 2011, the External Assessment Panel became the External Citizenship Advisory Panel (ECAP), with an expanded focus on providing strategic and objective advice on ExxonMobil’s corporate citizenship activities. The ECAP comprises ﬁve members with diverse backgrounds and experiences related to corporate responsibility. In 2011, the ECAP visited ExxonMobil’s Irving, Texas, headquarters to discuss corporate citizenship performance and policies with our management. Panelists also visited our Joliet Reﬁnery in Illinois to observe how our standards, processes, and programs are applied in our operations. The lessons learned from the ECAP’s visit to Joliet inspired the facility-level case studies in this Corporate Citizenship Report on oil sands development at Kearl (page 10) and integrated reﬁning and chemical manufacturing at Singapore (page 48). These case studies provide an inside look at the challenges and opportuni.ties of operating in the energy industry. Mark Cohen Professor of man.agement and law Owen Graduate School of Manage.ment, Vanderbilt University Jane Nelson Director of Harvard Kennedy School’s Corporate Responsibility Initiative Salil Tripathi Director of policy Institute for Human Rights and Business Elizabeth McGeveran Senior vice president, Governance and Sustainable Investment F&C Management Limited Tim Smith Director and senior vice president, Environment, Social, and Governance Group Walden Asset Management For the panel’s statement on this report, please visit exxonmobil.com/ panelfeedback Performance Data ExxonMobil collects data on a wide range of indicators to track performance. We include indica.tors consistent with the guidance provided by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and cross-referenced against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We work to continually improve our performance across our citizenship focus areas. This means assessing performance at many levels of the organization, from our operational sites to the business lines. We provide data interpretations for where we consider the performance trend to be generally desirable (.), undesirable (.), or mixed (.) for applicable data. Performance data in the 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report include XTO Energy Inc. (XTO) information beginning in 2011. As a result, some of our his.torical performance trends have been affected, as we describe in further detail within this report. For certain metrics, no interpretation is nec.essary. For other metrics, we interpret trends based upon performance over a multiyear period and consider other factors in our assessments, such as production volumes and economic climate. We conduct much of this detailed analysis at the operational level. Where we see unfavorable trends—at any level—we identify and aim to correct underlying causes. Interpreting our citizenship data regularly allows us to identify the performance issues that need the most attention. We describe in further detail within the text how we plan to address these issues.