ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Worldwide, access to energy underpins economic prosperity and human progress. Our business presence serves as a long-term economic driver in the communities where we live and work. 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report exxonmobil.com Economic Growth and Development We support the economic growth and development of communities where we do business, primarily through hiring, training and utilizing local workers and suppliers. Wherever we operate, we provide and spread the direct and indirect economic benefits of a competitive oil and gas sector by creating new jobs, developing a technically skilled workforce, strengthening business practices, purchasing goods and services, and creating investment opportunities. By collaborating with NGOs, other companies and govern.ments, we are also able to help achieve community develop.ment goals. Access to energy underpins many of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, for example. Learn more about the United Nations Millennium     Development Goals Building and sustaining local economic growth, while also improving social conditions, is at the core of our approach to local content development. We specifically focus on training and educating a local workforce, developing local vendors who can provide goods and services to our business, and improving the livelihoods of community members through strategic community investments. We describe our community investments in more detail on page 68 of this report. Our National Content Guidelines, Strategies and Best Practices contain the key elements of our local content strategy and plan, provide models and tools for the successful development of local capacity, and detail roles and responsibilities at the corporate, country, and project and operations levels. Because we work in a variety of countries and communities, each with different challenges and opportunities, we tailor our local content approach for each location based on specific needs. We base our strategy on local factors such as the development Up Close: Economic Development from the Baytown Expansion Project ExxonMobil is working to expand our Baytown Olefins and Mont Belvieu Plastics Plants located near Houston, Texas. This large-scale expansion, which will add a new ethane cracker and premium product facilities to capitalize on abundant supplies of natural gas, will create new jobs, spur economic development and generate additional tax revenue. As part of our planning process, we conducted an economic benefits study to understand the potential impacts of this project. In the greater Houston area, the expansion is estimated to create approximately 10,000 construction jobs, 350 perma.nent ExxonMobil jobs in the Baytown area and 3,700 related jobs in the local community. Nationally, the project will create 18,000 jobs during its three-year construction phase and more than 22,000 permanent jobs when the expansion’s facilities become fully operational. These jobs are not limited to the petrochemical and supporting industries, but will spread throughout the entire U.S. economy, including many consumer product and service industries. This project could generate regional economic benefits of $870 million annually and $3.3 billion each year nationally. goals outlined by the government, stakeholder expectations, the regulatory environment, the existence and quality of infra.structure, the business environment and social capacity. LOCAL HIRING AND TRAINING Hiring locally helps us advance economic development and education in the countries where we operate, and contributes to the continuity of our operations. We maximize the number of local employment opportunities wherever we do business. We made significant progress in hiring host country nationals in 2013.  In Angola, 80 percent of our personnel are Angolan, 14 per.cent of whom are in supervisory and managerial positions.  In Equatorial Guinea, nearly 70 percent of employees are Equatoguinean, 13 percent of whom are in supervisory and managerial positions.  In Indonesia, nearly 90 percent of employees are Indonesian, 27 percent of whom are women; local staff hold nearly 75 percent of supervisory and managerial positions.  In Nigeria, 91 percent of employees are Nigerian, 15 percent of whom are women; 21 percent of local staff are in supervi.sory and managerial positions. Our ability to increase local employment depends on the supply of qualified individuals. Generally, as economic activity in an area increases, the demand for local, skilled workers also increases. This can result in a shortage of available workers. To address this challenge, we support education and training initiatives aimed at increasing the number of individuals from which we can select. Up Close: Workforce Development in Angola In the countries where we work, our strategy is to develop a strong and high-performing national workforce to meet business requirements through appropriate training, challenging and rewarding career opportunities, and sustainable succession plans. At the early stages of our work in Angola in 2004, we brought in a group of experienced ExxonMobil employees who were already familiar with our company’s standards of project execution. We immediately established training programs and hired local individuals, bringing economic benefits to the country. Since 2004, as more Angolans received training and on-the-job experience, the hiring of nationals has accelerated, resulting in a significant reduction in the number of expatriates working in the country. At the end of 2013, we had 75 Angolans in leadership positions, including 16 offshore supervisors. National workers now account for 80 percent of our workforce in the country. Felicio Neves was the first Angolan to join Esso Angola 18 years ago. He started his career in the accounting depart.ment and worked in various roles over the next seven years. WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT IN ANGOLA Expatriates Angolans % Angolans 700 90% Further, in order to help develop the skills of locally hired After two years on an expatriate assignment in Houston, Texas, employees, we place experienced ExxonMobil expatriates — he returned to Angola and held supervisory positions for the individuals working in a country other than their country of next 10 years. Since 2012, he has assumed leadership respon.permanent residence — in countries where they can share their sibilities as a planning manager. expertise and train and mentor nationals for operational and Number of Employees 70% 500 80%600 60% 400 50% 40%300leadership roles. “My career development process was hard work but reward.30%ing. I encourage everyone that would like to pursue a leader.200 20% 10% ship position within ExxonMobil to have a good attitude and 100SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT to perform your best at all times. It is very important to be 0%Developing and using local vendors for the supply of goods curious and always willing to learn.” 0 and services is a central component of ExxonMobil’s business — Felicio Neves, Planning Manager strategy. By developing a variety of capable local suppliers, 2004200520062007200820092010201120122013 we are able to nurture entrepreneurship and foster globally competitive businesses. Our goal is to build and maintain a qualified, competitive and sustainable supply chain wherever we operate. In some of the more remote locations where we operate, local suppliers sometimes do not have the experience or capacity to provide competitive goods and services to support our busi.ness. We use a number of tools to overcome this challenge. For example, in areas where we are growing our business, we conduct business process training covering topics such as health, safety and security; business ethics; costing and tendering; finance and credit; and international standards and codes. We look for opportunities to reach out to new suppliers either through membership in chambers of commerce or similar organizations, or through advertising. In some cases, we also advertise supplier requirements early in the contract.ing process in order to allow local suppliers sufficient time to prepare their bids. At our Sakhalin-1 project in Russia, Exxon Neftegas Limited (ENL), a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, has developed an effective program to increase participation of Russian companies. We use a systematic outreach program to inform Russian compa.nies of the opportunities and project requirements in advance of when goods and services are required. The end result is a healthier and more competitive supply chain for the project, increased business opportunities for Russian companies and more jobs in the regional economy. Approximately $13.3 billion in contracts — two-thirds of the total contract value with third-party vendors — has been awarded to Russian companies or joint ventures from 1996 to 2013. Up Close: Training Local Workers in Indonesia Training a local workforce is one of our priorities. In Indonesia, Mobil Cepu Ltd. and ExxonMobil Oil Indonesia Inc., ExxonMobil subsidiaries, offer an Industry Vocational Training Program for local men and women to hone their skills. To date, we have helped train more than 1,200 young people from areas nearby our Arun and Banyu Urip fields in weld.ing, plumbing, carpentry, forklift operation and electrical installation. One local resident who has reaped the benefits of having participated in the training program, Sri Yuni Setyawati, graduated from the school of Marine Engineering at Sepuluh Nopember Institute of Technology in November 2013. Of her experience, Yuni said, “I hope every youth around the Banyu Urip project is able to participate in this training so that he or she has the opportunity to enhance his or her skills and the internship to develop his or her skills and attitude.” ExxonMobil’s approach to training and hiring Indonesians has led to a workforce composition that is more than 90 percent Indonesian. In addition, we have 110 Indonesian trainees, some of whom are working as expatriates in Angola, Cam.eroon, Malaysia, Nigeria and the United States to expand their skills before returning to join their fellow graduates and support our operations in Indonesia. Up Close: Helping to Improve Supplier Safety Performance ExxonMobil’s high standards for safety extend to those with whom we do business, and our suppliers are no exception. In addition to using safety performance as a screening tool for potential suppliers, we consider safety in the bid evalua.tion. Standard procurement language provides us the ability to suspend or cancel work if a vendor is not meeting our safety expectations. We constantly engage with our suppliers and share our expectations regarding safety. Many of our suppliers have improved their safety performance and have established a stronger safety culture after working for ExxonMobil. For example, AMEC Black & McDonald (ABM), a Canadian company that provides project management, engineering, construction and maintenance services, has been a supplier to ExxonMobil Canada since 2004. In that time, the company has adopted a number of ExxonMobil’s safety programs to improve its safety culture and performance. The Step Back 5x5 program, one of the first programs adopted and still used today as an integral part of ABM’s employee orientation, is a brief hazard assessment program completed before each task. ABM also introduced this program to a number of its own contractors, driving the culture of safety further down the supply chain. “AMEC Black & McDonald Limited has been working with ExxonMobil Canada for almost 10 years as a contractor. Our cultural growth in safety performance has been pow.erfully impacted by our relationship with ExxonMobil in an extremely direct and positive way. Our world-class safety record would have not been possible without ExxonMobil’s guidance and support. We have a very strong safety culture, with a belief that all incidents are preventable and zero total recordable incident rate is achievable. We have proven this with our record only because of our involvement with ExxonMobil and their expectation that Nobody Gets Hurt.” — Mark Healy, President, AMEC Black & McDonald Limited Supply Chain Management The success of our business depends on how well we manage those who work on our behalf. Anyone who does business with ExxonMobil can affect our operations and our reputation. Our global footprint often reaches beyond our own fence line. We rely on our approxi.mately 160,000 suppliers of goods and services to uphold our commitment to operational integrity. Purchases from these sup.pliers have made a significant positive impact on the economies and living standards in the countries where we operate. Our supply chain management process begins when any ExxonMobil business line identifies project or operational needs requiring the procurement of third-party goods, services or materials. We apply a standardized procurement approach that allows us to share the same rigorous standards, accountability and good practices worldwide. Our staff is trained to conduct supplier prequalification assessments (which include anti-corruption due diligence screening where appropriate), perform restricted-parties screening and incorporate standard legal terms and conditions into contracts. After prequalification, we commu.nicate project expectations or operational requirements that a potential or existing supplier must meet. We then assess poten.tial suppliers and their capabilities based on operational criticality and the level of risk associated with the material or service being procured. Considerations can include elements such as:  Health, safety, security and environmental requirements  Technical qualifications  Design, construction and project assurance and procedures  Product quality assurance, including product stewardship  Supplier operational, maintenance and control processes  Financial qualifications Additionally, supplier selection can take into account other issues, such as the increased participation of the local community and of historically underrepresented segments of the population, including, but not limited to, women, minorities and indigenous peoples. We comply with specific supplier-related require.ments in each country where we do business. We engage with suppliers and provide feedback where they may need to correct deficiencies. In certain cases, we terminate our contracts with third parties if their performance does not meet ExxonMobil’s standards. For information about how ExxonMobil expects sup.pliers to uphold labor laws and human rights, see page 68. In 2013, we began enhancing our detection of potential issues, such as forced labor, in our supply chain. We devel.oped a structured approach that includes screening of our supply chain, considering issues like the risk status of particular countries and high-risk commodities, coupled with targeted interviews. In 2013, we analyzed our supply chain and com.pleted our first field assessment with a vendor; we did not identify any issues. In 2014, we plan to evaluate our program and enhance it as appropriate. Ensuring we have a diverse supply chain is another one of our priorities. In the United States, we have a supplier diversity pro.gram that proactively includes minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs) in our procurement process. In 2013 alone, we purchased $744 million in goods and services directly from MWBEs in the United States. In addition, our sup.pliers spent $280 million on procurement from MWBEs on our behalf, bringing our total expenditure to more than $1 billion. For the past eight years, the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council has recognized ExxonMobil as one of America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises. Up Close: Diverse Supplier Development in Mexico In 2012 and 2013, ExxonMobil, the U.S. State Department, Vital Voices and WEConnect International — an organization that empowers women business owners to access global supply chains — joined efforts to support women entre.preneurs and business professionals in Latin America. The two-year project is building a diverse network of local women suppliers through education, self-registration and certification of women business owners who own and control at least 51 percent of their businesses. The program is helping the certified women-owned businesses access new markets by connecting them with buyers from several large multinational corporations. The goal in Mexico is to reach out to more than 1,000 businesses, provide business training for 400 businesses, and enter 200 self-registered and 60 certified businesses into WEConnect International’s online eNetwork database of women-owned businesses based in more than 70 countries. Stakeholder Engagement: Sustainability in the Supply Chain Collaborating with our suppliers to find efficiencies throughout our supply chain benefits everyone involved. Over the past several years, we have engaged with our marine vessel suppliers and operators to reduce fuel consumption of the vessels used off the east coast of Canada. We installed fuel-monitoring equip.ment on board the vessels to help operators reduce the amount of fuel used. So far, we have seen an average reduction in fuel consumption of approximately 10 percent. This initiative has not only reduced fuel costs, but has decreased associated GHG emissions and reduced maintenance costs for these vessels. “Maersk Supply Service has benefited greatly from working closely with ExxonMobil Canada. Initiatives such as adjusting vessels’ operations based on feedback from newly installed fuel-monitoring systems on our N class vessels, continued focus from both onboard management and shoreside manage.ment to ensure new ideas such as the benefits of hull cleaning, and the close communication between the vessels and the Hibernia platform in conducting daily operations as efficiently as possible, have led to lower fuel consumption on board, less maintenance on vessels’ engines and increased productivity.” — Jeff Penton, HSE Manager, Maersk “In early 2009, Secunda Canada was approached by ExxonMobil Canada East and challenged to develop a fuel stewardship program and improve our fuel consumption efficiencies within our fleet. This program has exceeded all expectations, with a realization alone in the first year of implementation of a decrease in airborne pollutants of 30 percent and reduced fuel consumption by an average of 10 percent. This program has proven to be successful and sustainable, realizing improved efficiencies year over year.” — Darrell Sheppard, VP Operations, Secunda Canada Transparency Revenue transparency can reduce corruption and make the benefits of resource development more widely available. ExxonMobil is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and anti-corruption wherever we operate. Our efforts to promote revenue transparency have helped fight corruption, improve government accountability and promote greater eco.nomic stability around the world. We believe the most success.ful transparency initiatives are those that ensure each relevant public, private and societal entity is fully engaged and properly represented. In addition, the initiatives must respect national sovereignty and local norms and apply to every company in all sectors working in a country. ExxonMobil has supported multistakeholder engagement to achieve revenue transparency for many years. We continuously monitor public policy and local regulatory requirements with respect to transparency initiatives. The U.S. Dodd-Frank Act requires companies like ExxonMobil to undertake certain supply chain due diligence with respect to any “conflict minerals” (currently including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten) that may be necessary for the production or functionality of the company’s products. Tin and tungsten are ingredients in certain catalysts we use in our refineries and chemical plants. Accordingly, we have established due diligence procedures with our conflict mineral suppliers and amended our relevant supply contracts to help ensure the conflict minerals we use do not originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjacent countries. Based on our due diligence program, we have no reason to believe any of the conflict minerals used in the manufacture or function of any ExxonMobil product in 2013 may have originated in the DRC or any adjoining country. One important global program that encourages transpar.ency and collaboration among governments, companies, civil society and financial institutions is the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which is dedicated to strengthen.ing governance by improving transparency and accountability in this sector. Companies and governments participating in EITI separately report payments and revenues, respectively, allowing EITI to reconcile any differences between the totals and publish validated total government revenues. ExxonMobil has actively participated in EITI since the pro.gram’s inception in 2002, at both the secretariat and country levels, including continuous participation on the EITI board as either a primary or alternate member. Our efforts related to EITI during the past year have focused on working with the board to develop and implement its new standards for mem.ber country participation. Numerous countries where we have operations are working on becoming, or have become, EITI members. ExxonMobil supports the EITI application, validation and implementation processes of Azerbaijan, Cameroon, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia, Iraq, Kazakh.stan, Madagascar, Mexico, Nigeria, Norway, Ukraine and the United States, and of potential new applicant EITI countries including Australia, Colombia, Papua New Guinea and the United Kingdom. In August 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) published new rules for global government payment reporting as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The initial SEC rules were vacated by a U.S. District Court, so the SEC must now develop new reporting rules. The American Petroleum Institute (API), of which ExxonMobil is a member, has devel.oped and submitted recommendations to the SEC outlining a new approach to transparency reporting that we believe is superior both to the original SEC approach and to other approaches currently being considered around the world. The API proposal protects companies from disclosing commercially sensitive information, while at the same time giving citizens of resource-producing countries the information they need — in a form that is readily usable — to hold their governments accountable. This approach is consistent with ExxonMobil’s long history of leadership in pioneering transparency efforts, such as through EITI. Learn more about the API proposal to the SEC In July 2013, the European Union (EU) approved a revised accounting directive that mandates government payment reporting, similar to the now-vacated SEC rules. Each of the EU member states has 24 months to implement rules at least as stringent as but not limited to the directive. We are concerned about the inconsistency between the new EU rules and the direction given to the SEC to revise its rules, which will result in multiple and potentially contradictory reporting requirements in different jurisdictions. Such a fragmented approach would not give civil society a means to compile and analyze government revenue or give companies protection of commercially sensitive information.  We will continue to work constructively with the proponents of increased revenue transparency toward fair and equitable policies and programs that reduce corruption and improve governance. Initiatives that pursue those goals provide for a more stable business climate, which in turn supports stronger and more sustainable economic development. An employee working at our chemical plant in Singapore. ExxonMobil is working on multiple projects to improve energy efficiency. Over the past decade, we improved energy efficiency by approximately 10 percent in refining and chemical manufacturing. MANAGING CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS Managing the risks associated with climate change requires the participation of governments, consumers and private companies. Creating solutions that protect the environment without undermining the poor and global economic growth is one of the world’s greatest challenges. 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report exxonmobil.com Our climate change risk management strategy includes GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (NET)four components: mitigating GHG emissions in our operations, Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissionsdeveloping cutting-edge technology, encouraging the (millions of metric tons)responsible use of our products and engaging on climate policy and planning. Upstream Downstream Chemical View our 2013 Carbon Disclosure Project response 126 2010 129 View our Energy and Carbon — Managing the Risks and 2011 125 Energy and Climate reports 2012 126 2013 Mitigating Greenhouse Gas Emissions GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (NORMALIZED)In 2013, we continued to Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions manage our greenhouse gas (metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production) emissions through enhanced Upstream Downstream Chemical equipment reliability and 2010 20.5increased energy efficiency. mechanism. For example, in most OECD nations, we assume 2011 20.7 an implied cost of CO emissions that will reach about $80 per 2 2012 22.2 metric ton in 2040. OECD nations are likely to continue to lead 2013 22.7 Since energy use is pervasive in every aspect of life around the the way in adopting these policies, with developing nations world, and since policies to address GHG — and more specifi-gradually following, led by China. 2010 20.8 cally CO2 — emissions will tend to raise the cost of energy and 2011 20.3 related activities, many countries are taking care in structuring At the operational level, we work to lower GHG emissions by 2012 19.5 both the nature and the pace of GHG policy initiatives. This increasing energy efficiency and managing flaring and venting 2013 19.7 approach is understandable as a way to manage climate risks in our operations in the short term, implementing proven associated with GHG emissions while also minimizing related reduction technologies in the medium term, and developing 2010 57.9 policy impacts on local economies, industrial competitiveness, breakthrough, game-changing technologies in the long term. 2011 57.2 energy security and people’s ability to pay higher costs. 2012 56.3 One of the most effective opportunities for society to lower 2013 56.7 To help model the potential impacts of a broad mosaic of GHG emissions is through the use of natural gas in electric future GHG policies, we use a simple cost of carbon as a proxy power generation. As one of the largest natural gas producers 1Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in the Compendium of  Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (API) and the Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions (IPIECA). in the world, ExxonMobil is well-positioned to provide access to this clean energy source for power generation. In 2013, ExxonMobil’s net equity GHG emissions were 126 million metric tons, which is essentially flat compared with our 2012 performance. We continue to seek opportunities to lower our GHG emissions. For example, the new steam cracker at our Singapore refining and petrochemical complex can process an unprecedented range of feedstocks, includ.ing crude oil. Converting crude directly into chemicals saves energy and reduces emissions by eliminating the refining steps required to produce naphtha. FLARING AND VENTING During crude oil extraction, a blend of hydrocarbon gases often accompanies oil to the surface. In certain situations, we flare or vent this gas either as a safety measure or as a means of disposal when there are no economic options for capturing and using it. In order to pursue commercial alternatives for utilizing associated gas, we need business environments with the right conditions, including available markets, nearby infrastructure and appropriate regulations. Many of these conditions are not currently available in some locations where we operate, particularly in Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea. HYDROCARBON FLARING (millions of metric tons) Upstream Downstream Chemical 2010  3.6  2011  4.1  2012  3.6  2013  3.7  Therefore, the reduction of gas flaring is an ongoing challenge for ExxonMobil’s operations in these areas. Since 2007, ExxonMobil has reduced its rate of flaring in Nigeria by 74 percent due to significant investments in oil production enhancement projects with flaring reduction benefits, the implementation of an improved equipment maintenance program and the application of a senior management-supported Flaring Reduction Protocol. Mobil Producing Nigeria Limited, an ExxonMobil affiliate, is also active in the Nigeria Flare Reduction Committee, a collaboration between international oil and gas companies operating in the country, the Department of Petroleum Resources and the federal government. Venting is the release of methane without flaring. We minimize venting volumes to ensure the safety of our personnel and facilities, and to reduce our impact on the environment. Meth.ane emissions from all sources, including venting, represent less than 4 percent of our direct GHG emissions. In accordance with the Global Gas Flaring Reduction Initiative, of which ExxonMobil is a charter member, and as specified in our Upstream Flaring and Venting Reduction Environmental Standard for Projects, our aim is to avoid routine flaring and venting of natural gas in new projects. We also design new projects to avoid venting reservoir CO2 that is produced, where practical. In 2013, our combined Upstream, Downstream and Chemical flaring volume was 3.7 million metric tons, or approximately 10 million metric tons of CO2-equivalent GHG emissions. This performance is essentially flat compared with 2012, but represents a reduction of approximately 50 percent over the past decade. ENERGY EFFICIENCY In 2013, energy used in our operations totaled 1.5 billion giga.joules, which is consistent with our 2012 energy usage. Over the past decade, we improved energy efficiency by approxi.mately 10 percent in refining and chemical manufacturing. We pursue a variety of projects to improve energy efficiency. Since 2000, we have used our Global Energy Management System (GEMS) in the Downstream and Chemical business lines to identify and act on energy-savings opportunities. The GEMS equivalent in the Upstream business is the Production Opera.tions Energy Management System (POEMS). ExxonMobil’s Global Real Estate and Facilities Group has been working on an initiative to analyze energy use, water use and waste generation across our office facilities. In 2013, we contin.ued construction of our new energy-efficient 383-acre campus in Houston, Texas. The new office buildings are designed to be 40 percent more energy efficient than a typical Houston office building. Stakeholder Engagement: Sustainability in Motion Our Fuels & Lubricants customers want to reduce their environmental impacts, respond to industry trends as regulations tighten on fuel economy and meet the needs of their customers. Our customers are looking for products that increase energy efficiency, extend equipment and lubricant life, improve fuel economy and reduce GHG emissions. It is critical to our business that we engage with our customers on sustainability topics. The most visible way we address sustainability challenges is through providing advanced products, from industrial lubri.cants and vehicle engine oils to marine and aviation lubricants. We focus on creating innovative, high-performance products and services that help deliver both business and sustainability benefits. For example, we work with our customers to help increase equipment life and find operational efficiencies. This benefits equipment builders as well as users, creating value throughout the supply chain. ExxonMobil Research and Engineering Company collaborated with customers to field test Mobil SHC Pegasus™ 30, a synthetic oil that is used in advanced natural gas engines like those that power schools or hospi.tals. Mobil SHC Pegasus™ 30 helps users keep their engines running longer and cleaner. It also improves energy efficiency by up to 1.5 percent compared with conventional lubricants. Learn more about sustainability efforts in our     Fuels & Lubricants business “[The] combination of longer oil drain intervals and energy- efficiency benefits has helped to reduce engine downtime and the amount of waste oil generated, delivering cost savings and productivity benefits … without compromising the protection of the engine.” — Dr. James Zurlo, Staff Engineer, Waukesha Gas Engines, GE Energy Developing Cutting-Edge Technology We invest in new technologies with transformative potential to increase energy supplies, reduce emissions and improve operational efficiency. We have spent nearly $5.2 billion on research and develop.ment since 2009, including on technologies specifically related to reducing GHG and other air emissions. Our research port.folio includes a wide range of technologies, such as carbon capture and storage, cogeneration, biomass conversion and biofuels. We continue to monitor the competitive environment for game-changing opportunities. CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE Carbon capture and storage (CCS) involves capturing, transporting and storing CO2 in underground geologic formations such as saline reservoirs, depleted oil or gas reservoirs, or deep coal beds. In the future, CCS could be one of several important technologies needed to help reduce CO2 emissions, with the greatest opportunity being in the coal- and natural gas-fired power sector. However, the application of CCS will likely be limited in the nearer term by the high cost of carbon capture and the need for effective legal and regulatory frameworks — including long-term responsibil.ity for stored CO2 — public acceptance, industry infrastructure and the commercial demonstration of the entire CCS process in power sector applications. CCS economics can be improved when the CO2 is applied to enhanced oil recovery in some amenable locations. ExxonMobil has extensive experience in the critical components of CCS, and we continue to conduct in-house research to improve the economics of this technology. STEP 1: CAPTURING CO2  STEP 2: TRANSPORTING CO2  STEP 3: INJECTING CO2  The first step in the CCS process is capturing, or separating,  The second step is transporting the captured CO2 to the stor- The third and final component of CCS is injecting CO2 into  the CO2 from the fuel source used at power generation plants  age site — underground geologic formations such as depleted  underground reservoirs for storage.  or industrial manufacturing facilities.  oil or gas reservoirs.  GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTIONS FROM EXXONMOBIL ACTIONS2 Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions (millions of metric tons) Energy efficiency and cogeneration Flare reduction 2010 2011 2012 2013 2Cumulative since 2010 COGENERATION Through ongoing incorporation of cogeneration into our facilities, ExxonMobil is able to generate power more efficiently than many local utilities. Cogeneration captures heat generated from the production of electricity for use in production, refining and chemical processing operations. Due to its inherent energy efficiency, the use of cogeneration also leads to reduced GHG emissions. We have interests in approximately 5,300 megawatts of cogeneration capacity in more than 100 installations at more than 30 locations around the world. This capacity is equivalent to the annual energy needs of 2.5 million U.S. homes. In 2013, we added 42 megawatts of additional capacity at our Augusta refinery in Italy. We plan to add approximately 300 megawatts by 2015 through other projects. Since 2004, we have invested more than $1 billion in cogeneration projects. Up Close: Life Cycle Assessment We use life cycle assessment (LCA) in accordance with the guidance set by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO 14040:2006 and 14044:2006). ExxonMobil’s experts contribute to studies and training programs related to LCA. In the past three years, our experts have published three peer-reviewed articles on LCA and have collaborated with well-known academics and other third-party experts on the development of new approaches to improve LCA methodologies. We partici.pated in the United Nations Environment Programme’s Life Cycle Initiative to encourage the increased use of life cycle thinking globally. In addition, ExxonMobil experts spear.headed the development and publication of the Interna.tional Council of Chemical Association’s LCA Executive Guide, a short educational document for executives and decision-makers. In 2013, ExxonMobil experts conducted an LCA to determine the GHG emissions associated with the production of natural gas in the Marcellus Shale region of the United States. This analysis accounted for all phases of the shale OTHER RESEARCH INVESTMENTS ExxonMobil also invests in research to reduce energy use and emissions related to the use of our products. We recognize the responsibility to assist our customers in reducing emissions throughout their activities. For example, our Fuels & Lubricants business has started to embed sustainability throughout the gas life cycle — from drilling and production to transmis.sion and generation of electricity. The study concluded that activities associated with hydraulic fracturing contributed less than 2 percent of the life cycle GHG emissions associated with the produced gas. Approximately 87 percent of emissions are attributable to power generation, and approximately 11 percent are associated with the use of natural gas to fuel com.pressors. The combustion of gas at power plants to generate electricity is the primary source of emissions. Investment in increased efficiencies and new technologies throughout the entire life cycle will continue to reduce emissions. In total, the GHG emissions and freshwater consumption associated with the production of shale gas are about 50 percent lower than that of coal, regardless of the source or composition of the gas. In addition, hydraulic fracturing operations only account for approximately 6 percent of the life cycle freshwater consumption. We also conducted a comparative LCA to quantify the poten.tial environmental impacts of synthetic passenger vehicle and industrial gear lubricants. The scope of this study included the entire lubricant life cycle, from raw materials extraction to the end-of-life phase. The results indicate there are significant environmental advantages associated with the use of synthetic lubricants due to improved equipment efficiency and long drain intervals. The longer drain intervals translate into reduced material use and waste generation. For example, by using Mobil SHC 600 in gearboxes, a typical industrial plant could save up to 250 megawatt-hours of electricity annually, equal to the power consumed by 22 U.S. households in one year. entire customer engagement process. Products such as Mobil Delvac 1TM LE 5W-30 and Mobil DTE 10 Excel™ allow for reduced energy consumption and operating costs for our customers, as well as reduced GHG emissions. Engaging on Climate Change Policy and Planning We engage with policymakers directly and through trade associations around the world to encourage sound policy solutions for addressing the risks of climate change. PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT Reducing GHG emissions hinges on appropriate public policies that seek to reduce the risks posed by climate change at minimum cost to society, while recognizing the importance of abundant, reliable, affordable energy for global economic development. Developing countries already account for more than half of current GHG emissions globally, and by around 2020, cumulative historical GHG emissions from developing and developed economies will be equal. Therefore, both developed countries and the major developing economies need to participate in crafting policies aimed at mitigating global CO2 emissions. Policy discussions in developed countries should also recognize the role of energy in economic development. View our 2013 Carbon Disclosure Project response     for a discussion of climate change risks View our Energy and Carbon — Managing the Risks and Energy and Climate reports A variety of policy strategies can contribute to GHG emis.sions reductions, such as cap-and-trade rules, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. ExxonMobil participates in GHG emissions trading when cost-effective, in areas of our operations where regulated trading schemes exist. However, we believe a well-designed, revenue-neutral carbon tax program provides a more cost-effective alternative to a cap-and-trade regime for reducing GHG emissions. We believe this approach ensures a uniform and predictable cost of carbon, lets market prices drive solutions, maximizes transparency to stakeholders, reduces administrative complexity, promotes global participa.tion, and is easily adjusted to future developments in climate science and policy impacts. Our scientists have been involved in climate change research and related policy analysis for nearly 30 years. This undertaking has yielded more than 45 papers in peer-reviewed publica.tions. Experts from our organization have served on the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change since its inception, and continue to be engaged today. ExxonMobil funds or collaborates on climate-related research at the Uni.versity of Illinois, the University of California at Riverside, Pacific Northwest National Lab, Massachusetts Institute of Technol.ogy, Stanford University and the Bermuda Institute of Ocean Sciences. In 2013, we collaborated with the University of California at Riverside on a study aimed at improving computer modeling of black carbon in the atmosphere. ExxonMobil also played an integral role in organizing a major industry workshop through IPIECA on short-lived climate forcers (SLCFs). The workshop explored the basic science of SLCFs, natural and anthropogenic emission sources of SLCFs, and the role of the oil and gas industry. CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) is the cornerstone to managing safety, security, health and environ.mental risks in our operations worldwide, including potential physical risks associated with climate change. While most scientists agree climate change poses risks related to extreme weather, sea level rise, temperature extremes and precipitation changes, current scientific understanding provides limited guidance on the likelihood, magnitude or time frame of these events. Anticipating the likelihood of an event at the regional or local level in comparison to global averages is even more difficult. Nevertheless, our facilities are designed, constructed and operated to withstand a variety of extreme conditions, with safety factors built in to cover a number of engineering uncertainties, including those associated with potential climate change impacts. We continue to engage with major engineer.ing societies, international organizations and industry groups to develop sound engineering perspectives on managing the risks of climate change. 