Local development and supply chain management Hilda Wagia, instrumentation technician trainee, working in the Hides gas conditioning plant in Papua New Guinea. We have a responsibility to help advance economic development for the areas in which we operate. As we develop oil and gas resources to meet the world’s growing energy needs, we work to contribute to the economic and social development of the countries in which we operate. We also seek to ensure a healthy supply chain, one that respects human rights and the environment while creating opportunities for economic growth in the communities where we conduct business. ExxonMobil’s local content and supply chain management strategies are designed to deliver lasting and shared value to host countries, local communities and our business. We do this by employing systematic and clearly defined processes, templates and global best practices to integrate local development into overall project planning and execution. Local economic growth and development We believe local content — the added value brought to a host nation through the activities of the oil and gas industry — provides shared value to ExxonMobil and to the communities in which we operate, ensuring local participation is integrated into our daily processes. We align our goals with those of our partners to focus on establishing long-term economic benefits. We develop a local content plan specific to each country or area, taking into account social and economic conditions, the nature of the project and the community’s needs. Our efforts focus on employing and training the local workforce, supporting local suppliers and service providers, and improving the livelihoods of community members. This multi-tiered approach, combined with our strategic community investments, allows us to provide sustainable economic benefits, both direct and indirect, to the local communities where we operate. For additional information on our approach to community investments, see page 64. As part of ExxonMobil’s commitment to operational excellence, we participate in organizations and initiatives that improve local content management around the world. We are active participants in IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Kanu Okechukwu, a production operator for Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited, opens a manual valve to supply compressed air to equipment at the Erha North phase two project in Nigeria. Development (OECD). In 2015, we contributed to IPIECA’s local content task force and assisted in the development of IPIECA’s Local Content: A Guidance Document for the Oil and Gas Industry and the OECD’s Framework on Public-Private Collaboration for Shared Resource-Based Value Creation from Extractive Projects. Both of these documents were published in 2016. Local hiring and training We believe we have a responsibility to create local employment opportunities to help advance economic development and contribute to the continuity of our operations. As part of our effort to enhance the long-term capability of local workforces, we provide locally hired individuals with opportunities to develop technical and leadership skills that will benefit them throughout their careers, including after their work on ExxonMobil projects. We continued to make progress in hiring, developing and retaining host country nationals in 2015. For example: • In Angola, 82 percent of our personnel are Angolan, of whom 16 percent are in supervisory or managerial positions. • In Chad, 94 percent of our personnel are Chadian; 72 percent of supervisory or managerial positions are held by Chadians. • In Equatorial Guinea, nearly 75 percent of our personnel are Equatoguinean, of whom 13 percent are in supervisory or managerial positions. • In Indonesia, 87 percent of our personnel are Indonesian; local staff hold 83 percent of supervisory or managerial positions. • In Nigeria, 94 percent of our personnel are Nigerian; 21 percent of local staff are in supervisory or managerial positions. Up Close: Partnering with the Institute of International Education to invest in local workforces  ExxonMobil is committed to providing long-term strategic investments related to the education and professional development of local workers, targeting various types of positions and levels. One of our key partners in developing local individuals for senior management positions is the Institute of International Education (IIE). IIE is a private, not-for-profit organization that creates programs of study and training for students, educators and professionals from all sectors. We have partnered with IIE since 2006 to provide academic scholarships to motivated students in Angola, Indonesia, the Middle East, North Africa, Romania and Russia. To date, ExxonMobil scholarships have supported the educational and cultural development of 208 scholars in 13 countries. Scholarship recipients have pursued 36 different fields of study, and of those students who have graduated, 40 are currently employed by ExxonMobil. Our ability to hire locally depends on the availability of appropriately qualified individuals. We actively work to overcome challenges related to developing and retaining a local workforce, identifying and attracting skilled labor, and matching workforce skills with business requirements. For example, as economic activity in a particular area increases, the demand for local skilled workers also increases, which can result in a shortage of available workers. We address such situations by supporting education and training initiatives aimed at increasing the pool of individuals from which we can recruit. Training programs include the provision of information on ethical business conduct, health and safety, management skills and fundamentals of the oil and gas industry, as well as relevant technical and vocational skills such as welding, construction and equipment operation. Hakima Taoufiq, native to Rabat, Morocco, is one such student. Hakima earned her MBA from Tulane University in New Orleans, Louisiana, where she graduated first in her class in 2011. After graduation, Hakima joined ExxonMobil as a senior business analyst supporting the power and gas services group. Hakima is currently a senior business analyst supporting the liquefied natural gas group in Houston. From 2014 to 2015, Hakima served as the supply and logistics coordinator responsible for the reliable and optimal supply of more than 15 terminals across the midwestern United States, which translates to more than 120,000 barrels per day of gasoline, distillate and biofuel. “IIE opened doors I did not know existed. Through this program, IIE enabled me to define the sky as the limit and a world beyond my hometown as a playing field. It solved the major stumbling block of financing my education — since a loan was never an option where I came from. IIE gave me the wings to choose where, how and what I wanted to study, instead of defaulting to what was an available and female-appropriate career path back home.” Hakima Taoufiq Senior analyst To help develop the skills of locally hired individuals, we place experienced ExxonMobil expatriates — individuals working in a country other than their country of permanent residence — in countries where they can share their expertise and mentor local workers for operational and leadership roles. Additionally, a large number of local workers are placed in developmental assignments at ExxonMobil facilities around the world as a way to broaden their experience and accelerate their learning with the goal that when they return home, they will use and share this knowledge in their home countries’ operations. For example, Andreia Prata, a local hire in Angola, was placed on an assignment in the United States from 2010 to 2013. While in the United States, Andreia occupied several roles, including a senior planning and reporting analyst supporting the Downstream business and a project procurement associate supporting Upstream drilling and exploration. After this experience, Andreia returned to Angola where she is currently working as the area procurement manager overseeing acquisitions, warehousing and payables in the country. “My time in the United States contributed to both my professional development and personal maturity. I was able to gain a deeper understanding of ExxonMobil’s global operations as well as expand my professional network, both of which helped prepare me for my management role today.” Andreia Prata Area procurement manager, Angola Up Close: Local contractor development in Nigeria The Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited Erha North project started production in September 2015, five months ahead of the planned February 2016 start date. The project, which is estimated to produce an additional 165 million barrels annually from the previously in-production Erha North field, was completed with more than 6 million man-hours in-country without a lost-time incident, and the final cost was $400 million under budget. The overall success of this project was in part due to strong performance by the local Nigerian suppliers and contractors that ExxonMobil employed, as well as a robust local content plan. The project team collaborated early in the project process with the Nigeria Content Management Board to identify local content opportunities to increase local supplier participation. The team also participated in regular communication with key stakeholders, including the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, co-venture partners, technical teams and suppliers to ensure strategic alignment and stay on schedule. For example, more than 130 Nigerians were trained in various fields such as project engineering, scaffolding and fabrication, and 52 percent of trainees are now working full time on ExxonMobil projects. We also worked with several Nigerian companies to obtain necessary materials for the project, including sub-structures, pipes and mud mats. Throughout the project, ExxonMobil held multiple workshops with suppliers to help ensure that suppliers understood and complied with ExxonMobil’s supplier standards. In 2015, ExxonMobil was recognized for its extraordinary local content program in Nigeria as the Best Company in Local Content in Nigeria by Businessday, one of Nigeria’s most respected business newspapers. The award further recognizes ExxonMobil’s investments in Nigeria and the positive economic impact that our business has on communities where we operate. “The Erha North project demonstrates ExxonMobil’s disciplined management approach and expertise, and leveraged strong performance from Nigerian contractors, which accounted for more than $2 billion of project investment for goods and services, including subsea equipment, facilities and offshore installation. These contracts will bring direct and indirect benefits to the Nigerian economy through project spending and employment, consistent with project objectives.” Nolan O’Neal Lead country manager, Nigeria We operate several business support centers (BSC) that offer services to our global operations. We have 10,000 people working in centers around the world, including in Argentina, Czech Republic, Hungary and Thailand. These centers support our operations with a broad range of services, including financial, IT and customer services, and provide jobs and business opportunities for the communities in which they are located. In December 2015, ExxonMobil held an opening ceremony for a new BSC in Bengaluru, India. One of the purposes of this office is to leverage the significant pool of technical talent in India. To date, there are more than 250 locally hired individuals working at the BSC, half of whom are women. Local supplier development ExxonMobil works with a range of stakeholders, including host country governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and local communities to develop local vendors for the supply of goods and services. We seek to build and maintain a qualified and globally competitive supply chain wherever we operate. Our goal is to nurture entrepreneurship and foster competitive businesses capable of contributing to the sustainable economic progress of host countries. From left: Tom Walters, president of ExxonMobil Production Company; Alan Kelly, president of ExxonMobil Fuels, Lubricants and Specialties Marketing; and Bryan Milton, president of ExxonMobil Global Services Company celebrate the opening of the new business support center in Bengaluru, India. In order to be a supplier for ExxonMobil, a local vendor must be able to meet our safety, technical, environmental and human rights expectations and requirements. In some of the more remote locations where we operate, we face difficulties with identifying qualified local suppliers due to limited local capacity. ExxonMobil routinely assists suppliers in understanding our requirements, developing business processes and procedures and increasing their technical skills to become more competitive. Our long-term goal is to develop globally competitive suppliers. When a supplier is unsuccessful in competing for work with us, we provide them with advice and guidance on how to become better positioned for future opportunities with ExxonMobil or other companies. In October 2015, we held a workshop in Sakhalin, Russia, to educate potential contractors about our prequalification and bidding processes. The workshop included presentations by ExxonMobil personnel as well as roundtable interviews with local companies. In addition, participants received training on our safety, health and environmental expectations and requirements, and on how to effectively complete prequalification documents. In total, 26 companies from both Sakhalin Island and Russia’s mainland attended, and we identified a number of potential opportunities for business between ExxonMobil and these contractors. Since 2013, ExxonMobil Cepu Limited (EMCL) has partnered with local and national NGOs to offer training and capacity-building programs to local communities in the Banyu Urip project area on the island of Java in Indonesia. As part of this initiative, in 2015, EMCL collaborated with the Bina Swadaya Foundation and the local community to establish a new learning center. The center is intended to help build local capacity by assisting 550 local residents in Bojonegoro and Tuban regarding product development, financial management and business mentoring. In addition, the learning center will provide long.term marketing and supply chain opportunities that will help the community develop diversified businesses for long-term sustainable growth. The learning center has already helped the community identify business opportunities with various buyers around key commodities, including rice, goats, koi fish and water spinach seeds. To help promote safety among local suppliers, we implemented a driver training program for local driver personnel in Ivory Coast in 2015. The program was based on an earlier initiative in Madagascar, where ExxonMobil-employed drivers drove approximately 100,000 kilometers without any accidents or incidents. The goal of the training is to provide local drivers with practical skills as well as tools to respond to and mitigate driving risks. The extensive driver training includes a two-day defensive driving course, a first aid and passenger safety course and regular driver meetings to share lessons learned. The training program has helped the Ivory Coast venture office develop a local supply base while simultaneously improving the safety performance of our operations. Supply chain management Because our global reach expands well beyond our fence line, we know the success of our operations and reputation are influenced by those who support our operations beyond the workplace sites. ExxonMobil works with more than 165,000 suppliers of goods and services, and we develop relationships with suppliers that uphold our commitment to safety, the environment and human rights. We support supplier efforts for continuous improvement in these areas. When surveying the market for potential suppliers, ExxonMobil seeks suppliers that can meet our safety and operational requirements. Our procurement staff is trained to conduct supplier prequalification assessments, which include anti-corruption due diligence when appropriate. Additionally, we seek out local suppliers or suppliers from historically underrepresented groups including, but not limited to, women, minorities and indigenous peoples. ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights, and we expect the same of our contractors and suppliers. Up Close: Meet the member event in Mexico City At ExxonMobil, we strive to assist women business owners in finding opportunities to connect with our various business lines. Since 2011, the ExxonMobil Foundation has supported WEConnect International, an organization that empowers women business owners to access global supply chains. In November 2015, ExxonMobil Mexico hosted a “meet the member” event for women suppliers that are part of WEConnect’s Mexico chapter. This one-day workshop afforded women business owners the opportunity to network with ExxonMobil representatives from our various businesses and service lines. The event included interactive workshops and one-on-one meetings between the women and ExxonMobil representatives as well as an overview of ExxonMobil’s supplier diversity strategy and goals. In total, 60 women business owners and ExxonMobil personnel attended the event. To date, the meet the member event resulted in three new business opportunities for women-owned businesses in Mexico. These opportunities included catering services for the ExxonMobil venture office, design and event planning services for public and government affairs, and a supplier of hand sanitizer for medicine and occupational health. We expect new opportunities to emerge as we continue our efforts to develop women-owned suppliers in Mexico. In 2014, we conducted a pilot supplier human rights assess.ment program. In 2015, we tailored our efforts and engaged a selected group of key suppliers across various commod.ities. This process allowed us to gauge the level of human rights awareness among suppliers, as well as to gain a better understanding of how human rights practices, training and grievance mechanisms are used. To improve social performance along the supply chain, in 2016 we will continue to use learnings from our supplier awareness assessments to provide key inputs to the tools we are developing. For example, we recently developed and published ExxonMobil Supplier Expectations, a set of guidelines that outlines our expectations of contractors and suppliers inclusive of human rights. These Expectations include references to key international human rights frameworks such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We believe that by increasing our suppliers’ awareness of human rights, we can facilitate improvement in their own supply chains, creating a wider scope of positive impact and influence. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s positions and activities on human rights, see page 60. ExxonMobil Supplier Expectations In addition to respecting human rights, we require that all of our suppliers maintain our environmental performance standards. For example, ExxonMobil Nigeria conducts site visits at its local contractors’ sites and performs environmental inspections as a way to monitor supplier environmental performance. If a concern is identified, ExxonMobil will meet with that contractor’s leadership to provide feedback and assist in correcting the issue. In addition, expectations for our suppliers about environmental performance are included in the Supplier Expectations. Promoting supplier diversity ExxonMobil values its diverse workforce and works to promote a diverse supply chain. In the United States, we have cultivated diversity across our supply chain through our supplier diversity program for more than 40 years. For the past 15 years, we have tracked our annual spending with minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs). In 2008, we began to consider the full reach of our supply chain, and not just our direct spending, by making efforts to encourage and track the progress of our primary suppliers in the development and use of MWBEs. We refer to this as our Tier 2 program. As an example of our Tier 2 efforts, in 2015 the ExxonMobil Baytown facility sponsored a “meet and greet” session that attracted more than 75 attendees in an effort to provide diverse suppliers with an opportunity to engage with primary suppliers. As a result of this event, more than 25 diverse suppliers secured business contracts with a variety of primary suppliers. We believe this approach helps ensure the sustainability of our supplier diversity program by encouraging our primary suppliers to join in our efforts. As part of our supplier diversity efforts, we take steps to encourage our suppliers to develop their own supplier diver.sity programs. We have started including discussions of best practices for supplier diversity in regular supplier relationship management meetings with our key suppliers. As a result of this engagement, several suppliers are now tracking and reporting their spending with diverse suppliers as part of their supplier stewardship. We work closely with the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) to help identify and develop relationships with certified diverse suppliers in the United States. ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers1 Millions of dollars  2006  $576  2007  $582  2008  $615  2009 $887 2010 $841 2011 $1,068 2012 $1,001 2013 $1,024 2014 $1,108 2015 $1,064 Since 2011, we have consistently spent over $1 billion a year on minority- and women-owned business enterprises in the United States. In 2015, we met our target by spending $1,064 billion on diverse suppliers in the United States with the set of diverse classifications listed below. 1Includes direct ExxonMobil spending and that of our suppliers (Tier 2 spending). Total spending includes suppliers classified as minority-owned businesses;  women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and  transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled  veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities. ExxonMobil is consistently recognized as a leader in supplier diversity efforts. WBENC named ExxonMobil among America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises in 2015. This national award recognizes corporations with world-class programs and leadership in supplier diversity. In addition, at the NMSDC National Conference, ExxonMobil was awarded the Gazelle Company Award for a substantial increase in spending with minority-owned suppliers. National Minority Supplier Development Council Women’s Business Enterprise National Council In 2010, we set a goal to spend $1 billion annually on MWBEs in the United States by 2012. We met this goal in 2011 and have maintained a level of spend with minority- and women-owned suppliers greater than $1 billion per year for the past four years. In 2015, we met our target of $1 billion in spending with diverse suppliers in the United States, with the following classifications: minority-owned businesses; women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual-and transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities. Suppliers from these groups have contributed to our total diverse spending in order to ensure a more inclusive supply chain. To complement this effort, our supplier diversity database allows suppliers from traditionally underrepresented groups in the United States to register an interest in being an ExxonMobil supplier. Supplier diversity database Our supplier diversity program is steadily expanding into the international arena. In total, we spent $277 million with women-, indigenous- and other minority-owned businesses in select areas outside the United States in 2015. We continue to partner with WEConnect International to increase the participation of women-owned businesses in our supply chain around the world. In addition to providing financial support, we have participated in WEConnect International advisory councils in Brazil, Canada, Europe, India, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru and South Africa. In May 2015, ExxonMobil participated in the first WEConnect International Exhibition and Matchmaker event to help provide networking opportunities for women business owners drawn from the 36 states in Nigeria. At this event, ExxonMobil Upstream companies in Nigeria received two awards recognizing our support of WEConnect supplier diversity programs. One award was for contributing to the growth of WEConnect and recognized the success of a “meet the buyer” event that was sponsored by ExxonMobil and attended by representatives from more than 300 women-owned businesses in Nigeria. At this event, attendees received training on how to conduct business with multinational programs and on ExxonMobil Foundation programs. The second award was for distinguished corporate sponsorship of WEConnect and our contributions toward inclusive economic growth in Nigeria. The event contributed to an increase in the number of registered suppliers and business contracts awarded in Nigeria. In 2015, ExxonMobil spending with women-owned businesses in Nigeria was $16.8 million, an increase of 6.3 percent from 2014. WEConnect International Corporate governance ExxonMobil headquarters in Irving, Texas. A commitment to ethics and integrity is a core value of our corporate culture. Good governance is essential to ensuring the long-term viability of our business, promoting economic development of the communities where we operate and responsibly providing the energy needed to power the world’s progress. ExxonMobil employs a variety of policies and processes to uphold good corporate governance, avoid corruption and promote trans.parency underpinned by a majority independent board of directors that provides oversight on our corporation’s affairs. Ethics and integrity For ExxonMobil, upholding the highest ethical standards of business conduct is critical to maintaining our global license to operate. A commitment to ethics and integrity is a core value of our corporate culture. All employees, officers, directors and those working on our behalf are required to comply with all applicable laws, including U.S. anti-corruption, anti-trust, anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls laws, as well as laws of other countries applicable to our business. Standards of Business Conduct Our Standards of Business Conduct, adopted and admin.istered by the board of directors, ensure we operate at the highest level of operational integrity by setting the ethical conduct expectations of our corporation and majority-owned subsidiaries. These Standards cover a range of topics including labor, the environment and anti-corruption. While ExxonMobil is not a formal signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, its values represent key elements of our Standards. To establish a consistent understanding of our ethical standards of business integrity, all ExxonMobil employees receive training on our Standards of Business Conduct every four years, including a detailed review of the company’s ethics, anti-trust, anti-corruption and gifts and entertainment policies. Employees are required to read the Standards annually and confirm compliance. In addition to these business practice reviews, regular training is provided on anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls for employees with relevant job functions. No one has authority to make exceptions or grant waivers to the Standards. Employees are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, for violations of our policies. Standards of Business Conduct Internal audits We conduct regular internal audits and self-assessments to help ensure the rigorous implementation of our control systems and the Standards of Business Conduct. ExxonMobil’s internal team of more than 200 auditors annually reviews approximately one-third of the corporation’s operations, including detailed assessments of facilities, business units, personnel and records. We thoroughly investigate any suspected acts of noncompliance with the Standards across all functions of the company. Systems and practices for reporting violations ExxonMobil encourages employees and contractors to ask questions, voice concerns and report any suspected violations of company policies. In addition to our open-door communi.cation procedures, ExxonMobil has several confidential mech.anisms for reporting, including a 24-hour phone number and a mailing address. Employees can also report violations during supervisory reviews. Confidentiality is respected throughout the process, subject to legal requirements; retaliation against any employee is strictly prohibited. As part of our commitment to reinforcing ethics and high standards of business conduct, a hotline steering committee comprising personnel from security, internal audit, law and human resources reviews reports of suspected violations. The board audit committee receives a quarterly report that summarizes the steering committee’s findings, including any violations or major issues. Confirmed violations lead to disciplinary actions, up to and including dismissal. Anti-corruption efforts We seek to maintain the highest anti-corruption compliance in all aspects of our operations. Our Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Guide outlines ExxonMobil’s commitment to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the United Kingdom Bribery Act and global anti-corruption standards in our business relationships. The Guide also describes elements of the corporation’s anti-corruption compliance program. To ensure continued relevance and accuracy, ExxonMobil reviews the Guide annually and provides updates as needed. ExxonMobil employees and contractors acting on our behalf are prohibited from making payments to or engaging in transactions with government officials that improperly influence the performance of their official duties. Our standard language for procurement contracts includes requirements to keep accurate books and records, and, where appropriate, contains specific anti-bribery commitments. Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Guide Because we operate in parts of the world with changing political and regulatory climates, we believe it is imperative to train our employees on our anti-trust and anti-corruption policies. ExxonMobil’s law department conducts comprehensive annual training sessions for employees on anti-trust and anti-corruption compliance. In 2015, approximately 19,000 employees participated in anti-corruption training. Employees in relevant job functions receive in-person training soon after entering their positions and every year thereafter. Other managers and professional employees receive training every two years. We monitor legal and regulatory developments and advise employees as appropriate. To ensure continuous improvement, we evaluate the effectiveness of our compliance program regularly. Transparency For years, ExxonMobil has supported multi-stakeholder engagement in countries around the world for the purpose of increasing transparency of government revenues from the extractive industries. Our efforts to promote revenue transparency have helped reduce corruption, improve government accountability and promote greater economic stability worldwide. We believe the most successful transparency initiatives are those that ensure each relevant public, private and societal entity is fully engaged and properly represented. Successful initiatives must respect national sovereignty and local norms and apply to every company in all relevant sectors. We continually monitor and participate in public policy and regulatory developments with respect to transparency initiatives. In 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) published a proposed rule for global government payment reporting as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. A U.S. District Court vacated the initial SEC rules in 2013, as they were deemed to cause potential commercial and competitive harm to U.S. companies. The American Petroleum Institute (API), of which ExxonMobil is a member, submitted recommendations to the SEC outlining a potential new approach to transparency reporting that focuses on government receipts by resource type and production method and that protects companies from disclosing commercially sensitive information. The recommendations would also give citizens the information they need to determine their government’s resource revenues. In July 2013, the European Union (EU) approved a revised accounting directive that mandates government payment reporting. The United Kingdom implemented its reporting rule in 2015, and more EU member states are expected to do so this year. We remain concerned about the new EU rules, which impose a fragmented approach that will not give civil society a means to compile and analyze government revenue or give companies protection from disclosing commercially sensitive information. Nevertheless, we are preparing data gathering, verification and reporting systems and processes to comply with new requirements as the directive is transposed into local law in each EU member state. The SEC published a revised draft payment disclosure rule on December 11, 2015, which largely adopts the EU model rather than the approach API is advocating. We oppose the SEC’s new proposed rule on the same grounds of our opposition to its 2012 proposed rule and continue to encourage the adoption of a rule that generates data that host country citizens can access and use while simultaneously protecting companies from competitive harm. A global program that encourages transparency and collaboration among governments, companies, civil society and financial institutions is the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). This initiative is dedicated to strengthening governance by improving transparency and accountability in the extractives sector. Companies and governments participating in EITI separately report payments and revenues, respectively, allowing EITI to reconcile any differences between the totals and publish validated total government revenues. Since EITI’s inception more than a decade ago, ExxonMobil has had an active role at both the secretariat and country levels. An ExxonMobil representative has served on the EITI board as either a primary or alternate member since it began. In 2013, the program released an expanded EITI Standard outlining how countries can implement the EITI. The Standard requires commitment from all participants as stated in Principle 5: “We underline the importance of transparency by governments and companies in the extractive industries and the need to enhance public financial management and accountability.” Our efforts in 2015 focused on helping the EITI member countries where we operate comply with expanded requirements of the 2013 Standard. ExxonMobil supports the EITI application, validation and implementation processes in 20 countries, and we are working with governments in a number of other countries including Equatorial Guinea and Mexico, which are considering joining EITI. There are currently about 50 countries that are compliant members or have been accepted as candidates to begin reporting under the EITI Standard. Board of directors ExxonMobil’s board of directors provides independent over.sight of the corporation’s affairs. All directors are required to stand for election at our annual meeting of shareholders. At year-end 2015, 11 of 12 directors, including the presiding director and all members of the audit, compensation, public issues and contributions, and board affairs committees, were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange guidelines. In 2015, the board met 11 times, including a board visit to Papua New Guinea to learn more about our Upstream activities and practices in that area. For more information about that visit, see the Up Close on the following page. Corporate citizenship topics fall under the purview of the public issues and contributions committee (PICC), the board affairs committee and the compensation committee, and are routinely reviewed at board committee meetings. While risk oversight is the responsibility of the entire board, committees help the board focus on risk aspects relevant to each committee. For example, the PICC is charged, among other duties, with reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s policies, programs and practices with respect to the environment. The committee hears reports from operating units on environmental activities and also visits operating sites to observe and comment on current practices. The entire board receives briefings by internal experts on environmental stewardship and climate change. Board leadership structure Each year, board members select an independent director to serve as the presiding director, with the expectation that person will serve for a minimum of two years. The presiding director sets the agenda and chairs executive sessions of the independent directors and coordinates with the chairman on the agenda for meetings of the full board. At this time, the board believes the interests of shareholders are best served through a leadership model that combines the roles of chairman of the board and chief executive officer (CEO). With more than 40 years of service in both domestic and international positions with the company, our current CEO possesses in-depth knowledge of the corporation and the challenges of an evolving energy industry. For more information about our board structure, visit the corporate governance section of our website. Corporate governance Board selection process Maintaining a diverse board in regard to gender, race, geography, experience and fields of expertise is important for the company to succeed in a globalized market. The board affairs committee recommends board of director candidates in accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection of Non-Employee Directors, and diversity is a key consideration. Up Close: Board visit to Papua New Guinea LNG operations In April 2014, ExxonMobil began liquefied natural gas (LNG) production in Papua New Guinea (PNG), an oceanic country in the southwestern Pacific Ocean that occupies the eastern half of the island of New Guinea and offshore Melanesia islands. Current operations include gas production wells and a processing plant in the highlands; LNG production and shipping facilities on the south coast; and more than 500 miles of pipeline. Over the life of the PNG LNG project, ExxonMobil expects to produce and sell more than 9 trillion cubic feet of gas. In June 2015, ExxonMobil directors and executives visited the PNG LNG operations to view how ExxonMobil’s holistic approach to managing key sustainability and community issues has been successfully implemented in this unique area. The visit encompassed an overview of the mountainside gas wells and the Hides gas processing plant, as well as a review of the pipeline that transports treated gas from the highlands to the LNG plant. The visit also included a tour of the LNG production and shipping facility, during which board members witnessed an LNG ship preparing for departure. Through the visit, the board observed that the transition from construction phase to production is complete and appropriate environmental monitoring programs have been established. For example, the board saw that revegetation of our construction sites is progressing well. As part of ExxonMobil’s biodiversity strategy in PNG, local and international scientific research organizations specializing in tropical forest research are conducting regular biodiversity monitoring to ensure biodiversity values of the upstream area are retained. During the project’s onshore construction, 16 plant and 77 animal species new to science were identified. In addition to learning more about ExxonMobil’s Upstream operations in that area, the board members had an opportunity to engage with the PNG community through presentations by local employees and villagers, as well as a meeting with the prime minister and the first lady of PNG. Supported by an independent executive search firm, the board affairs committee looks for highly qualified non-employee candidates with demonstrated leadership, competency and a commitment to represent the interests of our shareholders. Other desirable qualities include: • Experience as the CEO or senior executive of a significant company or organization with responsibilities for global operations; • Financial expertise; • Experience on one or more boards of significant public organizations or non-governmental organizations (NGOs); and • Expertise resulting from significant professional or academi.cally based scientific or research activities. In 2015, 40 percent of the board’s independent directors were female, African-American or from outside the United States. Four of the seven most recent additions to the board demonstrate this diversity. Also in 2015, Doug Oberhelman joined the board following election by shareholders. Currently, the ExxonMobil board stands at 13 directors, 11 of whom are non-employee directors; an additional independent director candidate has been nominated for election in the 2016 proxy statement. We describe current director qualifications in our proxy statement. 2016 proxy statement Board committees overview Executive compensation and strategic advantage ExxonMobil’s business model is reflective of a capital-intensive industry, requiring long investment lead times and a significant focus on risk management. The structure of our compensation program fully supports this business model and is designed as such that it aligns the interests of our executives with those of our long-term shareholders. Our most senior executives — including the CEO, named executive officers and more than 1,000 other executives in the United States — participate in a common compensation program. Compensation for executives is highly differentiated, based on a rigorous annual individual performance assessment that takes into account several key factors, including results in the areas of safety, security, health and environmental performance, corporate governance, diversity and other goals pertinent to the financial and operating performance of the company. ExxonMobil executives understand their compensation reflects how effectively they manage risk and contribute to operations integrity and sustainable growth in shareholder value. ExxonMobil’s compensation committee carefully considers the feedback on executive compensation we receive from our shareholders, some of whom have held ExxonMobil stock for more than a decade. During the 2015 proxy season, the advisory vote on executive compensation received 90.1 percent of votes “for” the company’s program as outlined. During our extensive dialogue with shareholders, we also received positive feedback on our newly disclosed performance award matrix, which details how industry-leading operating and financial results over investment lead times of the business are linked to the level of individual bonus and stock-based awards. Additionally, our stock-based awards have long holding periods, i.e., for executive officers 50 percent vests in five years and the other 50 percent vests in 10 years from grant date or retirement, whichever is later. Unvested stock awards are not accelerated upon retirement and remain at risk of forfeiture. These features of the compensation program provide executives with a strong incentive to maintain a sharp focus on operations integrity, which in turn protects the safety and security of our employees, the communities and environments in which we operate. For more details on our executive compensation program, see ExxonMobil’s 2016 proxy statement. Communicating with directors Constructive engagement allows us to identify areas of oppor.tunity and improvement throughout our business. ExxonMobil’s directors encourage open and transparent communication on corporate citizenship topics. Individuals can email our non-employee directors through the corporate governance page of our website or send written correspondence in care of the secretary of the corporation. ExxonMobil employees work with directors as appropriate in responding to these letters and emails. Directors will sometimes request that senior managers meet with shareholders to address particular topics. Shareholder relations We value the dialogue we have with our shareholders on a variety of governance, social and environmental topics throughout the year. Management considers suggestions and engages with shareholders as appropriate. Our direct engagement with shareholders provides an effective forum to address issues, share relevant information and viewpoints, and align on the facts. In 2015, we had 42 shareholder dialogues with institutional investors, pension funds, and labor, religious, and NGO organizations. These dialogues have generally allowed us to reach common ground with our shareholders, in some cases avoiding the need for more formal shareholder proposals at the annual shareholders meeting. At the corporation’s 2015 annual meeting, shareholders owning approximately 3.5 billion — or nearly 84 percent — of outstanding shares were represented. In 2015, shareholders voted on directors, independent auditors, executive compen.sation and eight shareholder proposals. The summary table below shows the 2015 proxy vote results. We seek to report transparently on issues important to our shareholders. The Corporate Citizenship Report, Outlook for Energy and ExxonMobil’s website help communicate the company’s strategic outlook, performance and risk 2015 proxy vote summary Percent vote for1 Proxy item 2015 1. Election of directors (average)2  97.1  2. Ratification of independent auditors2  99.1  3. Advisory vote on executive compensation2  90.1  4. Independent chairman  33.8  5. Proxy access bylaw3  49.4  6. Climate expert on board3  21.0  7. Board quota for women3  4.3  8. Report on compensation for women3  5.8  9. Report on lobbying  21.0  10. Greenhouse gas emissions goals  9.6  11. Report on hydraulic fracturing  24.9  1Abstentions count for quorum purposes, but not toward voting on these proposals. 2Proposals submitted by the board. 3First-year proposal. ExxonMobil’s management committee. From left: Mark Albers, senior vice president; Andy Swiger, principal financial officer and senior vice president; Darren Woods, president and board member; Rex Tillerson, chairman and CEO; Jack Williams, senior vice president; Mike Dolan, senior vice president. management practices. In some cases, we publish additional reports to provide further information about certain issues. In response to our shareholder proposals, in 2014 we published three such reports — two on climate change and one on unconventional resources — which provide shareholders an enhanced description of global energy demand and supply, climate change policy, carbon asset risks and unconventional resource development. These reports continue to inform shareholders on how we evaluate and manage risks associated with these issues. Climate risk reports Unconventional resources report Political advocacy and contributions Public policy decisions made at all levels of government can have significant effects on ExxonMobil’s current and future operations. We believe that sound public policy is best achieved when a variety of informed voices participate in the political process. For this reason, ExxonMobil exercises its right to support policies that promote a stable investment climate for long-term business viability. ExxonMobil, like many U.S. companies, labor unions and NGOs, communicates its positions to the U.S. Congress and state legislatures. Lobbying activities include direct communication with members of Congress, state legislators, administration and regulatory officials, as well as support for trade associations and other groups that engage in lobbying activities. We fully comply with registration and reporting regulations related to our lobbying activities. In 2015, the corporation reported total federal lobbying expenses of about $12 million in its disclosure reports to Congress. ExxonMobil engaged on a variety of issues last year in support of responsible economic, energy, education and environmental policies. Our positions on a few key issues are described below. • Energy infrastructure: ExxonMobil supports the continued development of necessary energy infrastructure, which will increase energy security and help grow the economy. • Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling: ExxonMobil supports the global use of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing — safe and successful technologies that have been used for decades — to enable energy development. With the combination of these technologies, energy secu.rity is enhanced through expanded oil and gas production. • Cybersecurity: ExxonMobil is committed to protecting all information and assets related to our global operations. We support and participate in the development of risk-based industry guidelines and existing public-private frameworks to protect against cyber threats. Because of ExxonMobil’s global operations, we are concerned about the potential fragmentation of mandatory security requirements. To the greatest extent possible, cybersecurity requirements need to be harmonized globally.   • Tax policy: ExxonMobil supports stable tax policies that enable the energy industry to remain competitive in the global marketplace. Energy development benefits our economy and sound tax policy is needed to encourage investment, job creation and productivity. • International trade: Trade liberalization is among the top global issues for ExxonMobil. The company supports free trade policies for all products, including energy products such as oil and natural gas. ExxonMobil supports lifting restrictions on exports of energy products because expanding markets can benefit all consumers, since it encourages the development of new technologies, new business models and the efficient production and distribution of products. Robust trade policies benefit consumers and encourage more investment, sustain high-paying jobs and foster economic growth. • Regulatory improvement: Common-sense reforms to improve transparency, accountability and objectivity of regulations would enable effective enforcement, improve public safety and minimize economic costs. • Renewable fuel standard (RFS): ExxonMobil opposes fuel mandates such as the RFS because they distort free markets, do not provide claimed environmental benefits and ultimately increase costs to consumers. Transpor.tation fuels should be reliable and affordable to meet consumer needs, consistent with automobile and engine manufacturers’ recommendations, and compatible with transportation fuel infrastructure. • Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA): ExxonMobil supports TSCA reauthorization and modernization to strengthen safety standards, mandate safety reviews for all new and existing chemicals, and balance state and federal regulations of chemicals. Reforming chemical regulation strengthens oversight and provides consumers with more confidence in the safety of chemicals, while also providing companies the certainty needed to support future investments. • Education: Improving educational performance is vital to the success of our industry and to global competitiveness. We support sensible, forward-looking efforts to raise academic standards and help teachers and students. We support science, technology, engineering and mathematics education initiatives as part of a path to competitiveness. In light of the importance of sound public policies, ExxonMobil will continue to engage actively with stakeholders who have an interest in key issues that affect the company and industry. ExxonMobil Perspectives blog ExxonMobil makes political contributions to candidate committees and political organizations as permitted by applicable laws. These contributions are authorized by the board of directors. The corporation refrains from making political contributions in any country other than the United States and Canada. In 2015, we contributed almost $230,000 to state candidates and caucuses in 13 U.S. states. Corporate political contributions are subject to an internal review process that requires approval from the chairman. The political contributions of the corporation, as well as the contributions from the company-sponsored political action committee (PAC), are reviewed with the board of directors annually and are routinely verified during internal audits of the corporation’s public affairs activities. Eligible employees and retiree shareholders may participate in the U.S. political process by contributing to a voluntary company-sponsored federal PAC. PAC contributions are reported monthly to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) and are a matter of public record. During 2015, ExxonMobil’s PAC disbursed nearly $822,000* to federal and state candidates. Based on 2015-2016 election cycle disbursements, Congressional Quarterly’s Political MoneyLine lists the ExxonMobil PAC No. 52 in size relative to other corporate PACs. The ExxonMobil PAC ranks No. 43 in terms of receipts from employees and retiree shareholders. The rankings are compiled from publicly available data filed with the FEC. Our Political Activities Policy and Guidelines, as well as an itemized list of our corporate political contributions, are available on our website. Political Activities Policy and Guidelines *Totals may not reflect some candidates’ failure to deposit, or returned contributions not yet posted. About this report We welcome all feedback on this 2015 report. For additional This 2015 Corporate Citizenship Report was created in accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA — the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and the American Petroleum Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2015). ExxonMobil was a key contributor to the updated industry guidance, and this report reflects the new indicators at a common reporting level. The majority of these indicators are also consistent with the indicators used by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; this report is informed by the G4 guidelines but has not been prepared to a particular GRI in accordance model. To help interested stakeholders easily access our key sustainability indicators, we have mapped relevant IPIECA and GRI indicators on page 93 of this report. This report covers ExxonMobil’s operations from January 1, 2015, through December 31, 2015, unless otherwise indicated. The report uses both qualitative descriptions and quantita.tive metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and performance. For environmental and climate change data, units of measure are metric where noted. Financial information is reported in U.S. dollars. Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso and XTO Energy. For convenience and simplicity, those terms (and terms such as corporation, company, our, we, us and its) are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. ExxonMobil includes the above-mentioned operations as part of our company perfor.mance data, which starts on page 90. The term “project” as used in this publication can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency report. Continual improvement External feedback on our report is a key component of our engagement strategy and commitment to improve our annual Corporate Citizenship Report. Management reviews all comments, which, in many instances, are incorporated into the materiality assessment and report content. information, to view previous reports or to provide comments, visit exxonmobil.com/citizenship or contact: Jeremy Eikenberry, Corporate Citizenship Report Exxon Mobil Corporation 5959 Las Colinas Blvd. Irving, Texas 75039 citizenship@exxonmobil.com Assurance Third-party assurance provides an independent evaluation of how well we report our corporate citizenship information and gives our reporting practices additional integrity. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. conducts an annual third-party assurance of ExxonMobil’s safety, health and environmental reporting system. For the full assurance statement, see page 94. Cautionary note Statements regarding future events and conditions in this publication are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including energy demand growth and supply mix; demographic changes; project plans, results, costs and capacities; the impact of new technology; future emission reductions and efficiency gains; and future capital expen.ditures may differ materially due to changes in oil and gas prices and other factors affecting supply and demand for oil, gas and petrochemicals; changes in government policy and regulation; future technological developments; the occur.rence and duration of economic recessions; the outcome of commercial negotiations; unexpected technical and operating difficulties; and other factors discussed in this publication and in Item 1A of ExxonMobil’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K. These factors are also set forth under the heading “Factors Affecting Future Results” on the Investors page of ExxonMobil’s website. Incorporating stakeholder feedback Each year, we hold face-to-face and telephone dialogues with a variety of our stakeholders — including representatives from NGOs, academia, investors, industry experts and employees — about our Corporate Citizenship Report. We have identified several recurring comments from stakeholders on our 2014 report and describe where we have incorporated changes within this year’s report. Discuss the technology and science ExxonMobil uses in greater detail. We have dedicated a case study and several Up Close examples to provide more information about the leading-edge technology our employees are using each day. Describe the linkage between sustainability and ExxonMobil’s key business objectives. We have expanded our discussion on our business and how ExxonMobil contributes to progress by providing the energy the world needs. We also have featured our OIMS framework, which establishes common worldwide expectations for addressing the safety, security, health and environmental risks inherent in our business. Incorporate more third-party perspectives. We have incorporated quotes from eight ExxonMobil academic partners and NGOs in this report to show our continual approach to collaborating with our stakeholders. We have also incorporated our External Citizenship Advisory Panel’s statement on our citizenship activities directly in this year’s report. Provide more context for performance data. We have incorporated explanatory text with every chart throughout the report. Additionally, our performance data table beginning on page 90 has an expanded description of the scope of coverage in our company-wide data. About this report exxonmobil.com/citizenship Materiality A key step in developing this Corporate Citizenship Report is ensuring the content reflects ExxonMobil’s most material issues. According to IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, material issues for sustainability reporting are those that, in the view of both the company’s management and its external stakeholders, have the potential to affect sustainability performance significantly. ExxonMobil has been conducting a materiality assessment to guide our reporting since 2006. For this 2015 report, we refreshed and built upon the process that was used to determine content for our 2014 report. We outline this materiality process below. 1 Issue identification Using our list of potential material issues from 2014, we used the following sources to identify if there were any new issues to add or issues that may need to be reassessed: • Media review • Feedback sessions with external stakeholders • Benchmarking of peer company reports • Feedback sessions with ExxonMobil business line representatives • Review of new IPIECA reporting guidance 2 Issue prioritization We then prioritized the identified new issues or those that needed to be reassessed based on the following criteria: • Frequency that stakeholders raised the issue • Presence in the public domain • Occurrence under international standards and frameworks • Coverage by our industry and peers • Online and media coverage • Strategic importance to ExxonMobil • Future business opportunities and challenges 3 2015 material issues In 2015, two new issues emerged compared with last year: decommissioning and rehabilitation of the environment. While we have reported on these topics in the past, we have not addressed them in detail in recent years. Our materiality assessment results guided us to add them to the list of material topics in 2015. Safety, health and the workplace • Emergency preparedness and response • Employee benefits • Employment practices • Personnel safety • Process safety • Product safety and responsibility • Product transportation safety • Retention and engagement • Training and development • Workplace security • Worksite health and wellness Managing climate change risks • Climate change policy and planning • Energy use/efficiency • Greenhouse gas emissions Environmental performance • Air quality • Biodiversity and ecosystem services • Decommissioning • Environmental compliance • Rehabilitation of the environment • Spill performance • Water Community and social impact • Community relations • External stakeholder engagement • Human rights • Indigenous peoples Local development and supply chain management • Economic impacts and development • Supply chain management Corporate governance • Board leadership • Ethics and integrity • Executive compensation • Political advocacy and contributions • Shareholder relations/returns • Transparency Business operations (included throughout report) • Arctic operations • Canadian oil sands • Energy future • Management systems • Offshore drilling • Unconventional oil and gas operations Materiality exxonmobil.com/citizenship 