Advancing the Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment Process Although our projects and operations offer a variety of benefits to local communities and host countries, they can also carry environmental, socioeconomic and health (ESH) risks and challenges that need to be addressed during project planning, implementation and operations. Our goal is to maximize the benefits and prevent or manage the risks. Impact assessments help us do this — when starting major Upstream projects, we identify and evaluate ESH risks and opportunities by conducting an Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA). When conducting an ESHIA for a project, we first study and understand the ESH setting. We then identify how our activities will or could interact with the physical, biological and human environment; consult with stakeholders; identify and evaluate positive and negative actual and potential impacts; determine the risks associated with these impacts; avoid the identified risks or reduce the level of risk to an acceptable level; and develop an appropriate monitoring plan. We capture the findings and recommendations from the impact assessment process and translate them into a management plan, most often referred to as an Environmental, Socio.economic and Health Management Plan (EMP). The EMP is implemented, tracked and modified as necessary throughout the life of the activity. Since 2007, ExxonMobil has conducted or participated in 169 ESHIAs for projects and activities of varying scopes around the world. Conducting impact assessments is integral to implementing a project successfully and developing long.term, positive relationships with the communities and host countries where we operate. In 2013, we developed an ESHIA Guide for our Upstream professionals to help ensure a consis.tent approach when conducting these assessments. We recently performed a review of the process used to develop the ESHIA and EMP for the Chad/Cameroon pipeline project, which encompasses activities and facilities in the west-central African countries of Chad and Cameroon. Construction began in 2000, and full production commenced in 2004. ExxonMobil conducted an ESHIA for the project between 1993 and 1999, and we produced the EMP there.after. The ESHIA and EMP development process included nearly 900 village-level stakeholder engagement sessions in both countries, and public consultation and engagement continues to this day. Our review of the ESHIA/EMP development process for the Chad/Cameroon pipeline project allowed us to capture lessons learned, identify opportunities to improve the overall process, and develop and implement enhanced risk management strat.egies and measures. The review team included ExxonMobil ADVANCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIOECONOMIC AND HEALTH IMPACT ASSESSMENT PROCESS personnel and consultants who had participated in the ESHIA/ EMP development process, as well as other ESH subject mat.ter experts who brought a fresh perspective to the study. Based on the review, the team determined a key strength of the ESHIA/EMP development process for the project was its far-reaching and sustained stakeholder engagement process. The extensive multiyear consultation process helped build support for the project, avoid disruptions and schedule delays, develop and implement appropriate environmental and socioeconomic safeguards, and deliver compensatory and social development programs for the most affected communities. The review team also identified several areas of improvement for the company’s ESHIA/EMP development process, including:  The need for a greater emphasis on full life cycle land use, supported by a comprehensive and continuously updated environmental, health and social database that can better inform compensation and social development programs  The design and delivery of compensation, resettlement and social development programs that have a higher probability of long-term sustainability and success  A more detailed evaluation of the ESH ramifications of obtaining certain construction materials such as water, sand, gravel and rock Overall, the review demonstrated the ESHIA/EMP development process for the Chad/Cameroon pipeline project was successful in identifying and evaluating the highest-level ESH risks and appropriately managing them. We have subsequently applied this information to improve our overall ESHIA process for new opportunities going forward. Women who participated in the Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Project’s baking and agriculture programs. We strive to work collaboratively and transparently with local communities, including indigenous peoples. HUMAN RIGHTS AND MANAGING COMMUNITY IMPACTS Understanding and addressing the interests of societies and communities where we work is an important component of maintaining a successful and sustainable business. 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report exxonmobil.com We work in communities all over the world, each with their own unique cultures, needs and sensitivities. Responsibly managing our economic and social impacts on communities, maintaining a fundamental respect for their human rights and making valued social investments in their livelihoods help us maintain our license to operate. Managing Community Impacts Stakeholder Engagement: environmental studies and other topics. More than 3,600 local citizens have attended these meetings to date. The meetings Community Engagement in have helped establish an ongoing dialogue and identify key community needs, such as potable water treatment systems, South Africa and Colombia which ExxonMobil may be able to provide. ExxonMobil strives to have a positive impact in each community in which we operate. We believe strong, informed communities pave the way for a successful business environment. We aim to develop human, social and economic capacity in a way that benefits people, communities and our business. Achieving this goal requires us to manage our social and economic impacts actively and responsibly in the communities where we live and work. CONSULTATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS Consulting with communities during the early stages of a project allows us to identify opportunities and concerns and design effective risk management measures during the project planning phase. By endeavoring to avoid or mitigate as many concerns as possible at the onset, we are able to avert project disruptions, avoid delays, reduce costs and prevent the escalation of issues. Our Best Practices in External Affairs (BPEA) governs our community awareness programs and As we extend our reach into new areas, it is imperative that we engage with local communities from the onset. For example, in 2013, ExxonMobil began considering new operations in the Transkei/Algoa Exploration Area on the South African coastline. In partnership with our co-venturer, Impact Africa, a team of ExxonMobil employees and consultants led a series of community engagement meetings in the area. The key objectives were to communicate currently envisioned project options, develop relationships with community members and discuss environmental sensitivities with key stakeholders. Audience members included local environmental authorities, NGOs, marine researchers and community members. Three stakeholder meetings were held in Port St. Johns, East London and Port Elizabeth in June. Through this process, we were able to open communication channels between the project team and these communities. We were also able to collect informed comments about how the public could be impacted by the proposed exploration activities. We look forward to advancing potential exploration activities in South Africa and growing our presence in that country. We are also progressing plans to start onshore exploration in the Middle Magdalena Valley region in Colombia. To address local citizens’ potential concerns, ExxonMobil led a team to begin community engagement in this area. Community engagement specialists have held more than 100 meetings to date in three different regions, focusing on social engagement, government relations. The BPEA process helps us identify the specific needs, expectations and interests of host communities and align those needs with our community investment programs. Ensuring mutual understanding, trust and respect in our stakeholder relationships means that interested parties are represented as agreements are established. It also helps us establish constructive relationships with stakeholders who can provide valuable input into the decision-making process over the long term. Once a project starts, we provide local groups and individuals with a communication channel to voice and resolve concerns without fear of retribution. For information about our grievance process, see page 66. MANAGING SOCIOECONOMIC IMPACTS AND RISKS Oil and gas-related projects have the potential to impact indi.viduals, communities and the environment. Early identification, planning and engagement are essential to optimize opportuni.ties for creating and enhancing positive socioeconomic effects and for successfully implementing appropriate avoidance and risk mitigation measures. In 2012, we endorsed and implemented our Upstream Socio.economic Management Standard for Projects. This Standard is designed to help ExxonMobil identify potential socioeconomic issues and risks early in the Upstream life cycle and develop and implement appropriate avoidance and prevention, control, mitigation, compensation and monitoring measures. The Standard outlines different expectations that are intended to be implemented based on the identification of relevant socioeconomic risks, including indigenous peoples, impact assessment and mitigation, human rights, transparency and corruption, cultural heritage and diversity, community rela.tions, land use and resettlement, and economic development. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES Our operations can take place in areas inhabited by indige.nous peoples. We respect and engage indigenous communi.ties, and we work to protect their cultures and customs. We believe developing opportunities for indigenous communities to participate in training and employment benefits these communities and our business. Our approach to interacting with indigenous peoples around the world is consistent with the principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO) Convention 169 Concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries, the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the International Finance Cor.poration (IFC) Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, and the World Bank Operational Policy and Bank Procedure on Indigenous Peoples. Our operations in Alaska, Cameroon, Canada, Indonesia, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea and Sakhalin Island involve working directly with indig.enous peoples. Our first objective is to determine how each group prefers to be engaged. The community establishes its preference for how often and how long their members meet with ExxonMobil representatives, and whom the community chooses to provide its viewpoints or represent its wishes. We are sensitive to local communities’ concerns about balancing their cultural heritage with the desire for economic development, even after our operations have ceased. Wher.ever we work with indigenous peoples, we support both local employment initiatives and cultural heritage programs through local content and strategic community investments. LAND USE, RESETTLEMENT AND GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS We employ a number of practices for respecting property rights in communities where we operate, and we pay particu.lar attention to those areas where indigenous peoples live. The revised IFC Performance Standards, effective in 2012, require companies to obtain the free, prior and informed consent of indigenous peoples before initiating development activities on traditional lands. In 2013, IPIECA launched a project on free, prior and informed consent to gain clarity on its definition and best practices for implementation. An ExxonMobil employee is part of this task force, which is ongoing. Our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard for Projects includes expectations for free, prior and informed consultation with indigenous peoples. We strive to work collaboratively and transparently with local communities, including indigenous peoples, to foster ongoing support for our activities. We minimize involuntary resettlement through consultations with local communities and project design and implementation. When resettlement is unavoidable, like for our Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Project, we seek to ensure restoration of the livelihoods of displaced persons, and we apply international best practices aligned with the IFC’s Performance Standards. All of our activities are authorized by law and are conducted in consultation with and subject to approval by appropriate government agencies. When physical and economic displacement occurs, we develop and implement Resettlement Action Plans that are informed by landowner consultation and surveying and mapping of housing structures, gardens and other assets. If it is determined a household does not want to move, or wants to move but may have some reservations related to moving, ExxonMobil works to identify alternatives or provide additional assistance, as needed. There are several cases where we have rerouted infrastructure or chosen an alternative site for a facility to address resettlement-related concerns. As part of this process, we work with the landowners to confirm what assets are to be compensated, agree to the rates and establish the final compensation amount. In Papua New Guinea, the process also included the presence of an inde.pendent advocacy professional who ensured the landowner understood his or her rights, what would be compensated and Stakeholder Engagement: Learning from Our Stakeholders in Papua New Guinea The Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Project spans a large geographic area of challenging terrain, including remote locations with either limited or no forms of telecommunica.tion, electricity or infrastructure. In addition, there are approxi.mately 800 different languages spoken in Papua New Guinea, along with a wide range of culturally acceptable engagement protocols that apply to tribal clans. We have found the use of nontraditional methods of stakeholder engagement to over.come geographic, language and cultural boundaries is advan.tageous in Papua New Guinea. This approach has helped us identify new opportunities and adjust field activities to better meet the needs of our stakeholders. To engage effectively with landowners, community orga.nizations, NGOs, multiple levels of government and other interested stakeholders, we use diverse methods of stake.holder engagement, including a combination of both formal group meetings and informal engagements as we encounter members of the community along roads and in villages near project sites. We learned about the value of using a variety of engagement methods — such as drama, a common form of learning in Papua New Guinea — to deliver important construction and safety messages to communities more effectively. We also give community members the opportunity to provide input. In some cases, communities have raised concerns about project activities, so as part of our stakeholder engagement we have implemented a grievance mechanism that allows stakeholders to register their concerns with field officers, who then enter the details into a central information management system. The grievance mechanism features a five-step process: publicizing the process; receipt and registration of grievances; grievance review and investigation; resolution and response; and monitoring and evaluation. Through the grievance mechanism and the project’s broader stakeholder engagement process, we have been able to identify trends and work with people to find solutions. Issues and grievances received during the construction phase related mainly to concerns about compensation for land use, the resettlement of some residents, access to land, impacts on food resources and perceived threats to the environment and cultural sites. The project’s stakeholder engagement process, including its related grievance mechanism process, has also helped us learn about what we did well in communities and where people wanted us to extend community-based programs. It has also enabled stakeholders to contribute to continuous improve.ment. For example, members of one village raised an issue, so project personnel and local community members worked together to establish water catchment facilities that benefited both the villagers and the project. Watch one of our employees in Papua New Guinea     talk about how we work with the community the rates of compensation. In developing countries, resettled landowners or users then identify a location to build their new home, and we provide assistance to re-establish their house.hold at the new location. We also monitor and evaluate their livelihood restoration progress for up to two years. We have an assessment team identify resettled individuals or groups who may be more vulnerable to not being able to re-establish their livelihoods than others, such as single-parent households, handicapped individuals or the elderly. We provide special assistance to these vulnerable households. Respecting Human Rights Human rights are fundamental to society; we strive to respect human rights everywhere we do business through training and compliance with guiding principles. Our approach to human rights is consistent with the policy framework outlined in the 2008 report of John Ruggie, the United Nations Special Representative on Business and Human Rights. This framework recognizes the distinctly different but complementary roles of government and business with regard to human rights — the government’s duty to protect human rights and corporations’ responsibility to respect them. The United Nations Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights was released in 2011 to provide further guidance on implementing the “protect, respect, remedy” framework. These Guiding Principles emphasize operational due diligence; in other words, corporations should be aware of potential adverse impacts with human rights Up Close: Working with Indigenous Peoples in Northern Alaska In the vicinity of our Point Thomson Project in northern Alaska, we work with the local communities and government authori.ties to understand their concerns and avoid conflicts with their traditional lifestyle. Through a comprehensive assessment and regular engagement, we have identified several areas of con.cern to the local people, and we have adopted corresponding measures to address these concerns. For example, the Kaktovik community — located 60 miles to the east of the Project — relies, in part, on hunting and fishing for its food supply. The 22-mile Point Thomson Export Pipe.line runs through caribou habitat, which occurs in many loca.tions throughout northern Alaska. Consequently, we designed the pipeline to be 7 feet high to minimize the deflection of caribou migration patterns. Additionally, we have applied a non-glare metallic coating on the outside of the pipeline to reduce visual effects to wildlife in the area. Through consul.tation with the residents of Kaktovik, we also designed the pipeline with thicker walls in certain areas to provide protec.tion against accidental strikes from coastal hunters. Explore the Point Thomson Project interactive content     on ExxonMobil’s app implications and implement prevention measures as appropri.ate. The IFC’s revised Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, published in 2012, reflect the Guiding Principles regarding human rights matters. In 2013, IPIECA issued a guidance document with suggestions for implementing the Guiding Principles in the oil and gas industry. ExxonMobil recognizes the importance of successful voluntary human rights initiatives and supports IPIECA’s proactive efforts to address the expectations of the Guiding Principles for our industry. We provide a human rights awareness training program for personnel who work in high-risk areas. This training includes information about the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the requirements of ExxonMobil’s Statement and Framework on Security and Human Rights and expecta.tions regarding the implementation of the Framework in a given country. In 2013, we provided security and human rights train.ing to approximately 500 ExxonMobil employees and security personnel in Chad, Colombia, Indonesia, Iraq, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Russia and the United Arab Emirates. In addition, we are in the process of working with a consultant to develop a computer-based human rights training program. We expect to roll out a pilot of this instructional module later this year. Since 2002, ExxonMobil has actively participated in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Most countries where ExxonMobil works rely on the use of unarmed private security providers. However, in some locations, the local governments provide security personnel. In these cases, we still expect these personnel to uphold human rights. Our State.ment and Framework on Security and Human Rights helps implement the Voluntary Principles, and includes guidance on working with host government security personnel, developing approaches for working with private security providers, report.ing and establishing recordkeeping templates. Over the past five years, the portion of our private security contracts contain.ing specific requirements to uphold human rights has increased from 60 percent to approximately 99 percent. Our commitment to human rights extends to our workforce and is supported by our Standards of Business Conduct and Statement on Labor and the Workplace, which articulates our support for the principles of the ILO 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, namely the elimination of child labor, forced labor and workplace discrim.ination. We also seek business partners that observe similar standards. Our standard contract language requires adher.ence to all applicable laws and regulations related to safety, security, health and the environment. ExxonMobil’s procure.ment group also includes clauses in requests for quotations that require our business partners to abide by the prohibition of child and forced labor and the payment of wages in accor.dance with local regulations. Strategic Community Investments Our strategic community investments are aligned with a country’s economic and social goals, and complement our business focus. In 2013, we contributed $269 million to communities around the world. We engage in public-private partnerships and ongoing stakeholder engagement to improve social and economic conditions. We do so by focusing the majority of our spend.ing on our signature, corporate-led initiatives to advance economic opportunities for women, improve education and combat malaria. We supplement our corporate-led initiatives with community-specific programs, ranging from improving access to clean, potable water to tackling public health issues. We consider the development goals of each community when deciding when, where and how best to invest. 2013 COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS BY FOCUS AREA1 (millions of dollars) Employee and retiree giving Other $41 Arts and culture education $4Public policy research Civic and community $8 $69 Precollege education $46 United Health appeals and $24 workplace giving Environment $8 $5 Higher education $48 1Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. WOMEN’S ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY INITIATIVE Research shows that when women have control over their incomes, they are able to invest more fully in the health, education and well-being of their families. They also tend to reach out and propel other women forward, creating a powerful multiplier effect that benefits society as a whole.  In 2013, ExxonMobil invested more than $10 million in pro.moting economic opportunities for women. This support has reached tens of thousands of women in more than 90 countries. Over the past nine years, we have provided more than $70 million worldwide. In 2012, we partnered with the UN Foundation to produce a report about the most effective interventions that directly advance women’s economic opportunities. For information about the UN Foundation Research Partnership report, see page 72. MATH AND SCIENCE INITIATIVE Scientists and engineers are critical for addressing the chal.lenges of the 21st century. From medicine to energy develop.ment to computing, we need a strong global workforce that helps solve problems and creates new opportunities. This is why we invest in education programs that focus on inspiring students to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), including programs that focus on teacher development and training. Over the past 14 years, we have contributed $937 million for education programs globally. In 2013 alone, we directed $100 million toward education initiatives worldwide, with $38 million specifically for math and science education in the United States. MALARIA INITIATIVE Significant progress has been made in the global fight against malaria. Between 2000 and 2012, the scale-up of prevention interventions and enhanced access to proper diagnosis and treatment helped to reduce the global malaria mortality rate by 45 percent. However, there are still more than 200 million Up Close: Supporting the Common Core State Standards in the United States The United States lags behind other countries when it comes to education. The most recent international testing shows  U.S. students rank 17th in reading, 21st in science and 26th in math. Millions of American jobs remain vacant today, even in the face of high unemployment. One problem is there are not enough applicants with adequate STEM skills. One meaningful step to improve U.S. educational outcomes is to ensure the Common Core State Standards are fully imple.mented across the country so we can begin to encourage deeper learning and more critical thinking among students. The Common Core State Standards establish expectations for critical mathematics and language arts knowledge and the skills that students from kindergarten to 12th grade should master for college and career readiness. They stipulate what each student should know and be able to do, but how students are taught is determined at the local level. We are working with many others to advocate for successful implementation of the Common Core because we recognize improving U.S. educational performance is vital to the success of our industry and to broader national competitiveness in the years to come. Our chairman and CEO has publicly voiced ExxonMobil’s support for the Standards and their potential to improve all students’ ability to succeed, regardless of race, gender or socioeconomic status. His leadership on the issue serves as a model for other business leaders to emulate. To learn more about this topic, visit thecommoncore.com. 2013 COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION2 (millions of dollars) United States $156 Canada Europe/ Caspian $18 $33 $3 Asia Pacific Africa/Middle East $16 $43 2Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our  divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and    retiree giving through ExxonMobil's matching gift, disaster relief and employee     giving programs. cases of the disease each year, and it continues to have a dev.astating impact across sub-Saharan Africa and Asia. We have been working to help build a better future for communities in affected regions by investing in the fight against malaria — a preventable and treatable disease. Working with a variety of partners, between 2000 and 2013 our funding has reached more than 105 million beneficiaries. Our support has helped distribute more than 13 million bed nets, nearly 2 million doses of antimalarial drugs, more than 1 million diagnostic tests and training for more than 355,000 workers. Since 2000, we have invested more than $120 million in cash grants to organizations fighting malaria. In 2013 alone, we provided $13 million to 18 organizations, benefiting 22 million people in 12 countries. A number of factors, including heavier than normal rainfall, led to a spike in malaria cases in Chad and Cameroon in 2013. ExxonMobil has a strong presence in these countries, and we worked with our partners to coordinate an effective response strategy. We provided additional funding to replenish bed net supplies, increase utilization of bed nets through public messag.ing campaigns, and advocate for treatment of pregnant women in clinics and health posts. For more information about our response in Chad, see page 71.  Up Close: Measuring Our Impact We continually strive to improve our understanding of the impact of our community investments in order to ensure their sustainability and maximize the benefits of our efforts and resources. In 2013, we invested new resources into our measurement work and began conducting a thorough internal analysis of our philanthropic programs and mea.surement frameworks. Working closely with our partners, we are designing a more robust system to capture outcomes — beyond dollars spent and activities conducted — and develop transparent, data-driven methods to maximize the design of our philanthropic activities to have the greatest impact. Employee Participation ExxonMobil and our employees support community projects through financial contributions and volunteer time. Our worldwide spending includes contributions to nonprofit organizations, but we also invest in social projects through collaboration with other organizations. In 2013, Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affili.ates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation provided a combined $228 million in cash, goods and services worldwide. Of that total, $118 million supported U.S. communities and $110 million supported communities in other countries. Through company-sponsored volunteer programs, more than 21,200 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and their families donated approximately 711,500 volunteer hours to more than 5,100 charitable organizations in 32 coun.tries in 2013. Employees and retirees donated $41 million through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. When combined with corporate and foundation donations, ExxonMobil, together with our employees and retirees, contributed $269 million to community organizations worldwide. Learn more about our worldwide giving Learn more about our employee volunteer activities around the world Corporate Signature Initiatives 2013 Highlights WOMEN’S ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY INITIATIVE In the summer of 2013, ExxonMobil partnered with the George W. Bush Institute to host the African First Ladies Summit — “Investing in Women: Strengthening Africa.” The summit served as a useful platform for Africa’s first ladies as they work to cultivate change for millions of women in their respective nations and around the world. First ladies from Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia attended the event, as well as government officials, academics, business leaders and a variety of representatives from organizations worldwide. President and Mrs. Bush kicked off the two-day event, and First Lady Michelle Obama participated in a question-and.answer session. Among other topics, representatives discussed the role of technology in creating new economic opportunities for women. For more information, see exxonmobil.com/womensinitiative. MATH AND SCIENCE INITIATIVE To improve math and science education in the United States, ExxonMobil has supported the National Math and Science Initiative (NMSI) since its inception in 2007. Thus far, ExxonMobil has committed $125 million to this important endeavor. Over the past six years, the program has reached 551 schools in 22 states, improving the lives of more than 2 million students who have had the opportunity to learn from a NMSI-trained instructor. Each year, a growing number of schools benefit from NMSI. The schools that implemented NMSI’s Advanced Placement (AP) program in the 2012–2013 school year saw immediate results; the average first-year increase in the number of qualifying AP math, science and English scores at NMSI schools was 72 percent — 10 times the national average. In addition, the number of qualifying scores on AP math and science exams achieved by female students has tripled from 2007 to 2013. For more information, see exxonmobil.com/mathandscience and nms.org. QUALIFYING AP TEST SCORES FOR MINORITY STUDENTS IN NMSI Percentage increase in qualifying AP test scores for U.S. high schools participating in NMSI program U.S. average  NMSI average — minority students NMSI average — all students MALARIA INITIATIVE The 2013 emergency malaria outbreak in Chad and the Extreme North Province of Cameroon affected more than 600,000 people. Officials from Esso Chad and the ExxonMobil Foundation met with local, national and international health authorities to assess the impact of the epidemic on our employees and the communities where we live and work. They specifically discussed strategies to coordinate the response and reduce malaria cases in the Komé area of Chad, where 46 percent of our Chadian work.force lives. ExxonMobil awarded a grant to Malaria No More (MNM) to design an emergency response plan aimed at preparing and training health practitioners to detect and respond to malaria outbreaks. Working with the Chad National Malaria Control Program, MNM is updating the National Malaria Health Care Handbook and is training health care professionals in the 1,238 health centers in Chad on how to use the handbook. For more information, see exxonmobil.com/malaria. Up Close: UN Foundation Research Partnership Research has demonstrated that when women are econom.ically empowered, communities and nations benefit. Yet practitioners still faced a crucial knowledge gap regarding the most effective interventions that directly advance women’s economic opportunities. To address this gap, the UN Foundation and the ExxonMobil Foundation joined forces in 2012 to produce A Roadmap for Promoting Women’s Economic Empowerment. The study, led by Mayra Buvinic, an international expert on gender and social development issues, brought together the work of more than 35 economists and other professionals from universities, international agencies and nonprofit groups. The report summarizes the findings of 18 research studies with a focus on programs in four categories: entrepreneurship, farming, wage employment and young women’s employment. Based on these studies, the project compiled a database of 136 published empirical evaluations of programs and policies. The report systematically evaluated the evidence through three lenses: what works, for whom and where. It also looked at the cost-effectiveness and sustainability of programs. Key findings from the report include: Proven and promising interventions: Based on empirical evidence, the roadmap identifies nine proven and nine prom.ising interventions; they include savings accounts, proven to increase women’s productivity and earnings, and the use of mobile phones, which promise to deliver financial services and market information in a cost-effective way to women farmers and entrepreneurs. The very poor need more: Very poor women need a more intensive package of services than less poor women to break out of subsistence production. In-kind assistance: Providing in-kind assistance rather than cash can help nudge women microentrepreneurs to keep cap.ital in their businesses and avoid pressure to divert it to family members or to meet other household needs. Wage employment: Access to child care increases women’s wage employment levels and earnings, but design and delivery matter to ensure affordable care. Young women: Cash grants to poor and very poor young women may increase their employment options and resulting income, which can have sizeable social benefits. Country context: Whether an intervention works depends on the economic situation of a woman and the context in which she lives. In high-fertility, agrarian economies, for example, programs for women farmers need to be complemented by interventions seeking to reduce women’s work and time burdens, including access to quality family planning and repro.ductive health services. In resource-rich economies and small island nations, programs should seek to identify and develop domestic and niche export markets that are accessible to women producers. The report provides funders, NGOs and governments with a framework for making investment decisions and recommen.dations on evidence-based programs. At ExxonMobil, we are using the report’s findings to help us develop and fund more effective women’s economic empowerment programs around the globe. For more information, see womeneconroadmap.org and exxonmobil.com/womensinitiative. Country-Led Initiatives 2013 Highlights BRAZIL Thanks to support from ExxonMobil, the Refazer Institute in Brazil was able to expand its support to low-income families with chronically ill children in Rio de Janeiro. The institute’s vol.unteers had been providing quality-of-life improvements to the families with hospital supplies, medicine, food and discussions about health and wellness. Now, under an ExxonMobil.sponsored program called Grife Refazer, the group is offering professional training to patients’ mothers with the goal of developing skills that can lead to work-from-home income. The first class of 18 mothers began training in September 2013, learning crafts such as embroidery and making jewelry, purses and home decorations. The products are sold from a recently rented building near the institute. Local businesses also place orders for specific products they design, which the mothers then produce at home. Participants say the program is an uplifting experi.ence. “With a chronically ill child, we are unable to enter the workforce and this hurts our fami.lies financially,” one mother in the program said. “We have the capacity to be productive as we care for our families, and now we have the tools to make it happen.” SAUDI ARABIA ExxonMobil Saudi Arabia is one of the founding members of the Prince Salman Center for Disability Research (PSCDR), which provides disabled individuals in Saudi Arabia with the tools and support they need to become productive members of society. PSCDR’s mission is to advance insights into the causes of disabilities and develop new strategies to prevent or reduce their impacts. The center conducts basic and applied research and promotes the application of new knowledge to benefit individuals living with disabilities. Last year, ExxonMobil Saudi Arabia joined PSCDR to celebrate its 20th anniversary and to commemorate the center’s many national and international accomplishments related to disability research. Learn more about our community investments Exxon Mobil Corporation headquarters, located in Irving, Texas. Performing with the highest ethical standards of business conduct is a key competitive advantage and is critical to maintaining our license to operate. 