Community and social impact ExxonMobil s Protect Tomorrow. Today. expectations serve as the foundation of the company s commitment to operating in a manner that is both environmentally and socially responsible. This commitment includes addressing social and economic needs to ensure stronger futures for the communities where we work. $835million contributed to education programs around the world over the past decade “It is not black and white when it comes to helping create development opportunities. There is no easy solution to any issue, but the best answers always come from within the community itself. We can’t operate our business without our communities — and we don’t. Having strong local relationships through a commitment to maintaining dialogue is critical; it helps ensure that the impact we make is beneficial and sustained by all parties.” — Sisa Kini Community development support manager, Papua New Guinea Respecting human rights ExxonMobil actively promotes respect for human rights and is committed to complying with all applicable laws and regula.tions. Our fundamental approach to human rights is consistent with the United Nations Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The Guiding Principles, released in 2011, outline the different, yet complementary, roles of government and business with regard to human rights: the government’s duty to protect human rights and corporations’ responsibility to respect them. ExxonMobil ensures awareness of potential adverse human rights impacts and implements appropriate prevention measures. For information on detecting and preventing potential human rights risks in our supply chain, see page 60. We work closely with governments, civil society and indus.try to strengthen implementation of the Guiding Principles. We actively support IPIECA in its human rights-related work and provided input into the 2013 application of the Guiding Principles to the oil and gas industry guidance document, as well as a 2014 manual on community grievance mechanisms. The manual, which also forms part of the industry response on operational due diligence relating to the Guiding Principles, provides practical, step-by-step guidance on how to plan and implement community grievance mechanisms at the opera.tional level, as well as how to design and manage corporate community grievance mechanism frameworks. Since 2002, we have actively participated in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, a set of principles designed to guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of their operations within an operating framework that encourages respect for human rights. Our Statement and Framework on Security and Human Rights helps implement the Voluntary Principles and includes guidance on work.ing with host governments and private security personnel. ExxonMobil consistently emphasizes the importance of respect for human rights with host governments and private secu.rity firms. In addition, we have agreements with the private security firms with which we work that contain requirements to uphold human rights. These include expectations for compliance with relevant local, U.N. and other security-related frameworks. For years, ExxonMobil has conducted human rights aware.ness training for personnel who work in high-risk areas. This training includes information about the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the requirements of ExxonMobil’s Statement and Framework on Security and Human Rights and expectations regarding the implementation of the Framework in a given country. In 2014, we completed a pilot of a new computer-based human rights training module aimed at further strengthening human rights awareness among employees and select business partners working in high-risk areas. We plan to roll out the training module formally in 2015. ExxonMobil has also developed other training programs that contain a human rights component, including a training module for our socio.economic team. We have trained people from 17 countries to date, with more training sessions scheduled for 2015. Our commitment to human rights extends to our workforce and is supported by our Standards of Business Conduct and our Statement on Labor and the Workplace, the latter of which articulates our support for the principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, namely the elimination of child labor, forced labor and workplace discrimination. ExxonMobil’s standard contract language requires adherence to all applicable laws and regulations, including those related to safety, security, health and the environment. Our procure.ment group includes clauses in requests for quotations that require our business partners to abide by the prohibition of child and forced labor and the payment of wages in accor.dance with local regulations. Managing community impacts The success and sustainability of our business depend on how well we manage socioeconomic impacts and address the interests of the communities in which we work. Proactively identifying, avoiding and managing potential impacts, while also enhancing community benefits, is integral to completing projects successfully and developing long-term, positive relationships. Our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard for Projects, released in 2010, is designed to help us identify potential socioeconomic impacts and their associated risks early in the Upstream asset life cycle, then develop and imple.ment appropriate avoidance, reduction, remedy and monitor.ing measures. The socioeconomic aspects of our business fall into seven broad categories, as depicted below. These topics reach across multiple disciplines within the corpo.ration and are discussed throughout the report. Four topics will be covered below: community relations, indigenous peoples, cultural heritage and diversity, and land use and resettlement. For information on transparency and corruption, see the corporate governance chapter (beginning on page 63), and for economic development, see the local development and supply chain management chapter (beginning on page 57). Community relations As part of any proposed project activity, we seek to engage with stakeholders in local communities on a regular basis to share information and identify any issues or concerns. We then integrate the results of these discussions into our project decision-making process. Early consultation allows us to avert or reduce our impacts on communities, prevent project dis.ruptions, avoid delays, reduce costs and prevent the escalation of issues. According to external studies,1 nearly 75 percent of Up Close: Community engagement in Cameroon The modification of the existing Chad Export Project’s pipeline was completed in 2014 to support the construc.tion of the Lom-Pangar hydroelectric dam in Cameroon. Construction of the dam and creation of its associated reservoir required the modification of 27 kilometers of the existing Chad Export Project’s pipeline. Cameroon Oil Transportation Company (COTCO) — partly owned by Esso Pipeline Investments Limited, an ExxonMobil affiliate — and the government-overseen Dam Project signed an agreement to manage the environmental and socioeco.nomic interfaces between the two projects. Their teams conducted joint community engagement sessions so the collective impacts and mitigation approaches for both projects could be identified and discussed. Employment opportunities were also addressed jointly, with both proj.ects in the same area agreeing to better utilize the local worker pool and ensure work continuity between the two projects. One concern was that the new roads constructed for the projects could make access into the adjacent and newly created Deng Deng National Park (DDNP) more difficult to control. In response, COTCO entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Ministry of Forest and Fauna to construct two guard posts at the DDNP entrance points and provide additional vehicles for eco-guards. In response to engagement with the local village of Biboko, COTCO project delays are due to non-technical issues such as changes in regulations, the political environment or stakeholder issues. Our Best Practices in External Affairs (BPEA) and a project’s Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) and/or Environmental, Social and Health Management Plan define location-specific community awareness programs and funded a community house, which villagers had decided would best benefit the entire community. The overlap between the two projects made the filing of grievances or complaints initially confusing to some local vil.lagers. The projects collaborated to address those community concerns, with clear guidance as to which entity grievances should be directed. This approach allowed both projects to respond effectively to community concerns and maintain a  good relationship with neighboring communities. government relations protocols. The BPEA process helps us identify the specific needs, expectations and interests of host communities and aligns those needs with our community investment programs. The ESHIA process helps us identify the potential impacts a project could have and the ways to 1The New Politics of Natural Resources, ERM, June 2009; data source: Goldman Sachs. eliminate, reduce or remedy those impacts. Once a project starts, we provide local groups and individuals with a way to air grievances and concerns without fear of retribution. For more information about our grievance management process, see pages 47 and 55. Indigenous peoples Our operations are sometimes based in areas inhabited or historically used by indigenous peoples. We respect and work with these communities to protect their cultures and customs and provide mutually beneficial training, employment and business opportunities through local content programs and strategic community investments. Our approach to interacting with indigenous peoples around the world is consistent with the principles of the ILO Convention 169 Concerning Indige.nous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries, the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, and the World Bank Operational Policy and Bank Procedure on Indigenous Peoples. We participate on the IPIECA task force on Free Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC), which focuses on gaining clarity on the definition and best practices for implementation. In 2014, IPIECA continued to monitor developments in the international policy environment and hold periodic calls, sessions and webi.nars to share local knowledge and discuss emerging issues. Our key objective is to determine how these communities prefer to be engaged. The community establishes its pref.erence for how often and how long its members meet with ExxonMobil representatives, and who will provide its view.points or represent its wishes. We are sensitive to concerns around balancing cultural heritage with the desire for eco.nomic development, even after our operations have ceased. Cultural heritage and diversity At ExxonMobil, our respect for the cultural heritage and customs of local communities carries into our business practices, where we leverage specific studies to deepen the knowledge among our workforce. For more information on our local workforce initiatives, see page 58. We incorporate Up Close: Working with indigenous peoples in Western Canada Preventing or mitigating adverse social impacts and promot.ing opportunities with local communities are integral parts of ExxonMobil affiliate Imperial’s development plan in the Fort McMurray region of Alberta, Canada. Throughout the planning, development and construction phases of our projects, we have collaborated with local aboriginal groups, provincial and local governments, and other industries on shared key issues, includ.ing infrastructure development, land and water use, regulatory policy, local community support and capacity building. However, our engagement does not stop once we have regulatory approval. Continuing to build and strengthen our relationships with the indigenous peoples who have historic cultural connections to the land where our operations are located continues to be important. These communities are our closest neighbors in remote northern Alberta. Working together provides business, training and employment opportu.nities, which in turn brings economic prosperity to the region. However, the remoteness and isolation of some communities creates other challenges. Through our ongoing engagement and strong positive rela.tionships with local aboriginal groups, we recognized there were multiple community priorities. For example, the Mikisew Cree First Nation wanted to build a new elder care center in Fort Chipewyan. It would be the first and only long-term care facility in the remote community, and would provide an alter.native to relocating seniors who require assisted living to Fort McMurray or other parts of Alberta. Imperial contributed $1 million between 2013 and 2014 toward the development of the facility, which is now available to all Elders in the commu.nity. The contribution from Imperial, and those from several other industry sponsors, provided funding for the critical phases of the facility’s construction. Imperial-funded elder care center in Fort Chipewyan. considerations such as cultural, spiritual or sacred heritage sites and areas; biodiversity conservation; traditional knowl.edge; and sustainable resource management into project plan.ning, design, execution and ongoing operations. We use an established cultural heritage identification process prior to the start of work in an area and identify potential sites of cultural significance through our community stakeholder engagement process. Working with our contractors, we take a careful approach to preserving cultural sites and artifacts. For example, early consultation with the local communities near our Banyu Urip project in Indonesia revealed there were a number of sendangs, or water springs, that would be impacted by the project development. Local communities use sendangs to meet a variety of their water-related needs and consider them to be holy places. Working together with the communities, we hosted appropriate ceremonies to relo.cate the spirits from one sendang to another sendang. “In regards to people’s safety and ExxonMobil Cepu Limited’s (EMCL) commitment to preserve local wisdom, EMCL agreed to reconstruct the sendangs that were inside the project perimeter to the spacious Sendang Legung. We appreciate EMCL’s effort to relocate the sendangs and renovate Sendang Legung.” — Setyo Yuliono, head of Gayam subdistrict, Bojonegoro, Indonesia As another example, in 2013 our exploration for unconven.tional gas resources in western Argentina led to the discovery of significant dinosaur fossils during access-road construction. The fossils were from a herd of Titanosaurus Sauropods and a cranium from a Theropod — one of only two Theropods found in the area in the past 100 years. We immediately stopped work and diverted our operations to ensure the integrity of the discovery site. ExxonMobil provided materials and services to a team of four paleontologists, two assistants and one photog.rapher. The team is finishing the cleaning of the fossils and comparing them with other fossils in nearby museums. Up Close: Grievance management mechanism in Indonesia ExxonMobil has a long history in Indonesia — Socony, a Mobil predecessor, opened a marketing office in Java in 1898, and Esso entered Indonesia in 1912. Initial oil production from the Banyu Urip field began in 2008. Construction activities for the project, which produces oil onshore and transports it by pipeline for deliveries from an offshore floating storage and offloading vessel, started in December 2011. As of December 2014, the project was 92 percent complete, and is expected to reach daily production capacity of 165,000 barrels in 2015. This project is located in the densely populated area of Bojone.goro, on the eastern part of the island of Java. Over the past several years, we have actively worked with local communities in the project area to address some inherent challenges they face. There is a high unemployment rate among community members of working age, and the communities have had increasingly high expectations related to job and business opportunities and community support programs throughout the progression of the Banyu Urip project. Land ownership disputes have also been a particular challenge. We approached the challenge proactively by forming a socioeconomic team that included specialized disciplines, as well as project personnel ready to develop close relationships with community stakeholders. In 2012, the project established a Grievance Management Procedure with a commitment to resolve outstanding grievances and ensure concerns are addressed in a timely manner through open dialogue with the community. By the end of 2014, all but 14 of the 424 total received grievances had been resolved. “The findings during the two excavations have been extraordinary. We found two samples of the Theropod species, a completely articulated Titanosaur, including the cranium, and various fossils of freshwater turtles, fish and dinosaur eggs. These results demonstrate the richness of this region that will allow further studies and understanding of the formation. We want to thank ExxonMobil for their continuous support and contribution to the preservation of the area.” — Leonardo Filippi, director of the Museum Argentino Urquiza of Rincon de los Sauces and lead paleontologist of the project Land use and resettlement We understand community members often have concerns about how our operations may affect their land and way of life. We take a structured approach to respecting property rights in communities where we operate, and we pay particu.lar attention to those areas populated by indigenous peoples. Wherever land is required for Upstream projects, we adhere to the applicable host-country regulatory requirements that govern land acquisition activities and our Land Use Standard. If projects are externally financed, we also comply with land use, access and resettlement requirements stipulated by the lender(s). Site selection is a key process when managing land use-related impacts, including in those areas inhabited or used by indigenous peoples. Several locations are typically assessed based on technical criteria such as availability, accessibility, safety, security and constructability, as well as other criteria such as reducing environmental and social impacts. The crite.ria are then evaluated and locations are ranked to determine the lowest overall risk and preferred options. For example, ExxonMobil is currently partnering in a poten.tial offshore gas and LNG plant development project in the southern coastal region of Tanzania. Early in the exploration phase, the partners agreed to conduct a site selection process aligned with national environmental impact legislation and IFC Performance Standards requirements. Initially, the partners conducted the process independently, using Tanzanian and international experts to gather and analyze the available technical, environmental and social data on potential sites. Most sites were disqualified or eliminated because of elevated impacts or risks in one or more of these categories, resulting in a short list of six sites that were ranked in terms of differential impacts and risks across seven technical and 10 environmen.tal and social criteria. The evaluation criteria were aimed at ensuring the site selection process focused on the technical feasibility and cost of construction and operation, while at the same time avoiding significant adverse risks and impacts and enhancing benefits to the local population, the environment and Tanzanian society. Upon completion of the assessment, a site selection report and recommendation on the preferred site were provided to the government. The government of Tanzania supported the preferred site location and has initiated its statutory process to acquire the site while recognizing the partners’ requirements. Up Close: Providing humanitarian assistance in Kurdistan In response to a request from the Kurdistan Regional Government, ExxonMobil and our affiliate ExxonMobil Kurdistan Region of Iraq Limited contributed $1.5 million to International Medical Corps (IMC) to aid both Syrian refugees and Internally Displaced Persons near our exploration operations. IMC used the funds to deploy mobile medical units to fill gaps in health care and scale up health education and outreach, particularly among women, children and the elderly. The grant enabled more than 33,000 people to receive primary health care consultations, of which 86 percent were women, children and the elderly. Additionally, more than 27,000 people participated in health education sessions. Given the ongoing challenges in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, ExxonMobil is committed to caring for our neighbors in this region. Strategic community investments Our strategic community investments complement our business and are aligned with a country’s economic and social goals. In 2014, we contributed $279 million to communities around the world. We focus the majority of our spending on our signature, corporate-led initiatives to improve education, combat malaria and advance economic opportunities for women. We then supplement our corporate-led initiatives with local, community-specific programs that range from workforce development efforts to responding to natural disasters. We consider the development goals of each community when 2014community investments by focus area1 Millions of dollars Arts and culture $4 Civic and retiree giving Employee and community $42 $76 Women $7 Other education $12 Public policy research Health$8 $30 Precollege Environment education $5$38 Higher education $50 1Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. deciding where, when and how best to invest, and we often participate in public-private partnerships and ongoing stakeholder engagement to improve social and economic conditions. In order to maximize the long-term sustainability and benefits of our efforts, we continue to improve our understanding of our programs’ impacts. In 2013, we enhanced the measure.ment frameworks of our philanthropic programs. We continue to incorporate our findings, in close collaboration with our partners, into designing more robust measurement and evaluation plans and enhancing our partners’ measurement capacity. Throughout this report, wherever possible, we have described outcomes of our investments, beyond dollars spent and activities conducted. Education initiative We invest in education programs that focus on inspiring students to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), including programs that support teacher development and training. Global economic growth relies upon highly skilled individuals, particularly those well-trained in STEM fields. No single classroom factor is more important to improving educational outcomes than the quality of the teacher. This initiative has a direct impact on our business, as scientists and engineers are critical to addressing the energy challenges of today and tomorrow. Over the past 15 years, we have contributed more than $1 billion for educa.tion programs around the world, with $95 million contributed in 2014 alone. Furthermore, in 2014 we launched Be An Engineer, an initiative to help students better understand the engineering field and the opportunities it offers. The program, which includes a broad range of original and shared content, highlights the meaningful contributions engineers make in the world. For more on our efforts on education initiatives in 2014, see the Up Close boxes on the following two pages. Malaria initiative In several countries where we operate, malaria continues to have a significant impact on local communities. The good news, however, is the number of deaths and infections con.tinues to decline. Since 2000, mortality rates have decreased by 47 percent worldwide — and by 54 percent in Africa. From 2000 to 2014, antimalarial programs we funded have reached more than 124 million people. Our sup.port has helped distribute more than 13.5 million bed nets, 2.1 million doses of antimalarial treatments and 2.2 million rapid diag.nostic kits, as well as train more than 400,000 health workers. We describe our efforts on malaria in more detail in the case study on page 20. Women’s economic opportunity initiative Identifying and implementing community investment pro.grams that enhance local economic development is a business objective. One of the most effective ways to do so is through economically empowering women. According to a 2014 World Bank Gender at Work report, women are key drivers of economic progress and development: they consistently invest in their children and communities. The goal of our women’s economic opportunity initiative is to help women fulfill their economic potential and improve their well-being and that of their families and communities. We invest in programs proven to pro.vide women with the skills and resources needed to increase their productivity and income. Our invest.ments focus on three key areas: supporting research to identify effective interventions; developing women farmers, entrepre.neurs and business leaders; and improving women’s access to technology. Over the past 10 years, ExxonMobil has invested more than $82 million in promoting economic opportunities for women. This support has reached tens of thousands of women in more than 90 countries. Our contributions in 2014 totaled $12 million. See the Up Close boxes on pages 52 and 62 for more information on our efforts with this initiative. More information about these signature initiatives can be viewed on our website. ExxonMobil Foundation 2014community investments by geographic region2 Millions of dollars United States $150 Latin America $3 Africa/Middle East Canada $58$16 Asia Pacific Europe/Caspian $22 $30 2Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. Up Close: Education initiative: United States Education is the fundamental building block of individual opportunity and economic growth, and STEM skills, in par.ticular, are critical to ensuring today’s students are prepared for the jobs of the 21st century. Over the past few years, we have narrowed the focus of our U.S. education programs to help address the STEM challenge and are investing in fewer but larger-scale programs — ones with the potential to make a national impact. We focus on three key areas: training highly qualified teachers in math and science; encouraging students from all backgrounds to pursue math and science; and graduat.ing more students from high school ready for success in college and careers. In 2014, we invested $26 million in STEM-related programs in the United States and $26 million in international education programs. First-year increase in math and science AP test scores 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% All students African-American and Hispanic students U.S. students Students in NMSI College Readiness Program In 2007, ExxonMobil joined with other companies and foundations to initiate a national public-private partnership to meet the STEM challenge in the United States: the National Math and Science Initiative (NMSI). NMSI’s College Readi.ness Program provides training for teachers to help students master Advanced Placement (AP) courses in math, science and English. Based on College Board data, the first-year increase in qualifying math and science exam scores among NMSI partner schools was 76 percent — nearly 10 times the national average. Performance among traditionally underserved students in the NMSI program was equally impressive: The first-year increase in qualifying scores in math and science among African-American and Hispanic students was 93 percent, nearly nine times the national average. For female students, the increase was 79 percent, more than 10 times the national average. Another key NMSI program, UTeach, encourages undergrad.uate math and science majors to enter the teaching profession by offering an integrated-degree plan, financial assistance and early teaching experience. As of spring 2014, more than 2,100 students have graduated from UTeach programs at 39 universities in 19 states. In partnership with professional golfer Phil Mickelson and his wife, Amy, we also support teachers through the Mickelson ExxonMobil Teachers Academy. Since its inception 11 years ago, more than 4,500 elementary school teachers have been trained at the Academy in innovative teaching methods and hands-on applications of math and science, impacting the lives of more than 300,000 students nationwide. Since 2006, we have partnered with former astronaut Bernard Harris to increase diversity in STEM fields. Through the Bernard Harris Summer Science Camp, we have helped more than 8,700 middle-school students from underrepre.sented and underserved populations attend these all-expense.paid residential camps to improve student knowledge of STEM subjects, encourage youth to stay in school, and foster leadership and citizenship. Common Core State Standards Forty-three states and the District of Columbia have adopted the Common Core State Standards (CCSS) to improve students’ chances of success in college and their careers. ExxonMobil is actively voicing its support for the adoption and full implementation of the CCSS and their related assessments. The states developed the Standards in a process initiated and led by the nation’s governors, state school superintendents, local educators, parents and business leaders. We are support.ing states as they work to implement the Standards in their schools and are encouraging business leaders to advocate for improved educational outcomes for our students. Up Close: Education initiative: international Education ranks as one of the most important policy issues to improve global economic development. The World Bank has concluded education is a powerful driver of development and improved health, peace and stability. As a result, we award scholarships in developing nations and establish local partner.ships with organizations that have close ties with a country’s educational system. The following examples are just three of many country-led education initiatives that ExxonMobil affil.iates support. For additional information on these programs and other examples of our global corporate citizenship initia.tives, please see the global stories section of our website. Global stories Egypt ExxonMobil Egypt recently partnered with the Misr El-Kheir Foundation, a local NGO, and the Ministry of Education on a three-year initiative to create a new STEM education program at the Advanced Technical Industries School of Suez. The pro.gram’s goal is to create a higher-quality educational environ.ment by enhancing teacher quality and providing a successful model of STEM education for schools. Students participating in a STEM program at the Advanced Technical Industries School of Suez in Egypt. ExxonMobil Egypt’s contribution helped with curricula devel.opment, capacity building of teachers and administrators in cooperation with training provided by the American University in Cairo, and funding for lab equipment. In the first academic year of the program (2013–2014), the school ranked first among vocational schools in Egypt, and of the 68 students enrolled in the program, nine won first place in the regional science competition and third place countrywide. Further.more, the Ministry of Education plans to replicate the curricula in all vocational schools across Egypt. “The program is a real addition to us in the industrial educa.tion field and a breakthrough in the technical education field that Suez never experienced before.” — Engineer Khaled Fahim, headmaster, Advanced Technical Industries School of Suez Qatar ExxonMobil Qatar partnered with the National Center for Educator Development at Qatar University and the Supreme Education Council to pilot a program to help enhance teaching skills and motivate students to pursue careers in math and science. Now in its third year, the Qatar University ExxonMobil Teachers Academy is a week-long training program aimed at enhancing teachers’ understanding of math and science con.tent, facilitating student learning through problem solving and inquiry, and equipping teachers with interactive learning tools to support differentiated instruction. Since 2012, more than 120 teachers have taken part in the program, enhancing math and science education at more than 85 schools. The Academy, modeled after the Mickelson ExxonMobil Teachers Academy in the United States, has become a flagship community pro.gram in Qatar,  and received positive recognition from senior levels of government. “Qatar has a responsibility to invest in the education needed to help develop people and communities, and foster the intellectual capacity required to address society’s future challenges. With our partner, ExxonMobil Qatar, we will continue to work together on projects such as the Qatar University ExxonMobil Teachers Academy to enhance educational excellence in science and mathematics, so that Qatar’s students can excel in leadership roles in Qatari society and the global workforce.” — Dr. Sheikha Abdulla Al-Misnad, president, Qatar University China ExxonMobil China affiliates partner with organizations such as Junior Achievement (JA) China to volunteer and organize events to educate children in local communities. In 2014, 24 volunteers from ExxonMobil China affiliates conducted a “Let’s Go Green” workshop for 120 children of migrant workers at Shanghai’s Tangwan Primary School in Minhang district, located near ExxonMobil’s Shanghai Technology Center. The innova.tive curriculum on sustainable city development and energy efficiency helped spark curiosity about new subjects the children had little or no exposure to previously. ExxonMobil employee volunteers also went to three universities to deliver “Career Go” workshops to university students. These programs are examples of how ExxonMobil and its affiliates continue our long-standing support of JA in multiple countries throughout the world. Students in China learning about sustainable city development and energy efficiency. “We’re proud that 300 employees have donated more than 4,500 hours of volunteer service since 2010 to educate stu.dents who typically do not have access to such resources.” — Teoh Song Ping, general manager, ExxonMobil (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Up Close: Deploying technologies that accelerate women’s economic advancement Several leading organizations and research projects have identified improved access to technology as a key driver in promoting women’s economic empowerment. Through our women’s economic opportunity initiative, we bring simple life-changing technologies to women entrepreneurs and farmers. Our efforts have included developing a global tech.nology challenge to help find and nurture the most prom.ising innovations, and supporting efforts to enable closer collaboration among innovators, development experts and investors on ways to bring them to market more efficiently. Examples of technology programs we support and their direct impacts on women include: KickStart We partner with KickStart International to integrate manually powered irrigation pumps into our existing women’s farmer programs in Angola and Chad, helping women access water more easily, saving the time, expense and labor required to transport it. In the process, women farmers are able to scale up production from their commercial vegetable gardens. Since 2012, KickStart has delivered nearly 2,000 pumps to farmers in Chad and Angola and conducted on-the-ground training to ensure proper operation. Alsabour Djemil, a farmer in Chad, started using the pump through the program in February 2013. Since then, she has increased her income fivefold and doubled the size of her farm. With the extra income, Alsabour is paying for her chil.dren’s education, purchased a piece of land to build a house, bought basic supplies, and spent less time farming, while still realizing a greater production yield. She says she is now empowered to contribute to family decision-making and there is more equity in her relationship with her husband. Solar Sister Solar Sister was formed to empower women in rural Uganda by providing modern energy access. Using a neighbor-to-neighbor distribution system, the program helps women entrepreneurs deliver solar and clean-cooking technology solutions to their communities. In 2013, Solar Sister launched operations in Nigeria, with 45 entrepreneurs participating in three regions. In the pilot program, they sold more than 500 solar lights and clean cookstoves — devices aimed at improving air quality and sustaining community health. As of year-end 2014, 184 Nigerian women have joined the organization, selling nearly 2,500 products across 14 states. Iniobong Okon, a retired nurse who opened a maternity clinic, first heard of Solar Sister through her patient, Blessing, a Solar Sister team member. Iniobong bought a cookstove and solar lights, which she used in her clinic to provide health services after dark and when there was no electricity. Iniobong has also shared the benefits of solar technologies with shopkeepers in her community who were experienc.ing business difficulties due to interruptions in the national power grid. Iniobong uses the extra income from her Solar Sister activities to continue providing care for the women in her community and delivering children in bright rooms with no open flames or fumes. For more information about our women’s economic opportunity initiative and the programs we support, please see our website. Employee participation We foster a culture that encourages employees to contribute to the communities where they live and work, by granting time off from work to volunteer with charitable organiza.tions. Around the world, our employees are involved in local communities by becoming mentors to students, supporting local food banks and providing environmental education opportunties, among other activities. We also encourage our employees to bring their professional expertise to programs that enhance math and science education. ExxonMobil offers several programs that allow our employees and retirees to maximize their charitable impacts. Our Volunteer Involvement Program (VIP) encourages employees, retirees and their families to volunteer with charitable organizations, either individually or in teams. In the United States, the program provides a $500 donation on their behalf for every 20 hours volunteered, up to four times per volunteer per year. Our Educational Matching Gift Program matches employee and retiree donations to U.S. higher education institutions at a ratio of 3-to-1. In 2013, 4,800 employees and retirees donated $13.6 million to nearly 865 colleges and universities, as well as minority scholarship programs — which the ExxonMobil Foun.dation then matched with $30.4 million in 2014. “Knowing that my management supports my own volunteer work makes me more willing to volunteer for company-sponsored activities. As a project lead with the United Way Day of Caring and with Rebuilding Together Houston, I had a chance to hone my mentoring skills with younger employees and volunteers in sharing technical knowledge, as well as developing my own project planning, budgeting and project execution skills. I also had the opportu.nity to engage my children in some of the volunteer projects.” Jim Robin Data consultant, ExxonMobil Information Technologies Other examples of our community-level efforts in 2014 include: • United Way of Greater Houston: ExxonMobil employees and retirees raised more than $9 million, the largest dona.tion in the region, during the company’s 2014 fundraising campaign. Nearly 3,000 employees volunteered a combined 21,063 hours at Houston-area nonprofit agencies, which was supported by $275,200 in VIP team grants. • Introduce a Girl to Engineering: Employees serve as role models and lead hands-on activities connecting math and science to real-life applications. Since its inception 12 years ago, more than 11,000 students have participated in the event, which is held during National Engineering Week. • Junior Achievement (JA): Nearly 1,000 of our employees volunteered with JA chapters in eight U.S. cities in 2014. Internationally, ExxonMobil employees volunteered with chapters in 16 additional countries. We contributed approximately $1.77 million to JA initiatives worldwide. We earned the Junior Achievement Silver Presidential Award in March 2014 for accumulating more than 10,000 volunteer hours in the previous year. Additionally, 13 ExxonMobil employees sit on JA boards of directors. In total, nearly 20,000 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and their families donated more than 645,700 volunteer hours to almost 5,000 charitable organizations in 34 countries in 2014. The global stories section of our website has additional exam.ples of our employee volunteerism activities around the world. Global stories ExxonMobil Worldwide Giving Report Case study – Responsible production in Papua New Guinea Case study Responsible production in Papua New Guinea Community members in PNG attending an ExxonMobil-sponsored drama performance; we use drama troupes to engage on issues of importance to both our business and local communities. Our work in Papua New Guinea (PNG) demonstrates our holistic approach to managing key sustainability issues across our operations. PNG is a unique, diverse country that has a highly complex and challenging operating environ.ment. More than 800 language dialects are spoken by its 7 million inhabitants, and 97 percent of the land is under customary land tenure. An estimated 7 to 10 percent of the world’s biodiversity is present in the country, as well as the world’s third-largest moist tropical forest. Through our careful approach to environmental management, commu.nity engagement and local economic development, we have successfully worked with PNG’s communities and local organizations. These efforts helped us to begin liquefied natural gas (LNG) production in April 2014, several months ahead of schedule. Our current operations in PNG include gas production wells and a processing plant in the Highlands; LNG production and shipping facilities on the south coast; and more than 500 miles of pipeline in between. Over the life of the PNG LNG Project, we expect to produce and sell more than 9 trillion cubic feet of gas. Independent third parties regularly evaluate ExxonMobil PNG (EMPNG) to ensure conformance with external financing requirements related to environmental and social protection and performance. To see examples of these reports, visit pnglng.com. For an academic review of the construction phase of the Project, including details on grievance manage.ment mechanisms and other engagement efforts, please see the Harvard Kennedy School report Building the foundations for a long-term development partnership. Harvard Kennedy School report exxonmobil.com/citizenship 54 Case study – Responsible production in Papua New Guinea We invest in women entrepreneurs through the Livelihoods Restoration Program. Engagement with local communities Before we began construction, we worked to establish meaningful relationships to benefit both the communities and the company. Support from local communities was a key factor that enabled us to complete the PNG LNG Project construction phase early. Community engagement in PNG is challenging, given that many communities are located across diverse geographic and often mountainous terrain, and engagements need to accommodate many dialects. By the start of production, we hosted approximately 8,700 community meetings, with more than 190,000 in attendance. The meetings used multiple methods of communication, including roadshows, school meetings, community forums and drama performances. For example, using locally created theater, a culturally appropriate medium, we reached more than 3,000 people in 25 communities with our message about the importance of safety along the onshore pipeline. Since 2007, ExxonMobil has invested $268 million in commu.nity and infrastructure programs in PNG, including women’s economic empowerment, education and health initiatives. One example is our contribution to support a Texas Children’s Hospital initiative to improve PNG’s health infrastructure, spe.cifically in the areas of child and maternal health. For more information about specific donations and programs, see our quarterly environmental and social reports at pnglng.com. Grievance management mechanism In order to enhance our engagement with communities, and in keeping with the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustain.ability, we established a grievance management mechanism to address individual and community concerns about the project. Dedicated project personnel were responsible for develop.ing and managing a comprehensive process to map, track, Grievances received by category 2008–2014 164Social Misinformation 75 Land Economic  286  Environment Government  66  312  Security Project Other  15  113 127  analyze and respond to community grievances. Since the start of construction, we have received nearly 1,700 grievances, of which only three are not yet closed. Grievances have related mainly to compensation for land use, questions arising from the resettlement of some residents, access to land, impacts on food resources, and perceived threats to the environment and cultural sites. Resettlement Our global objective is to avoid or minimize resettlement. When resettlement is unavoidable, we incorporate our internal sustainability principles, which are in line with the IFC’s Performance Standards, into the resettlement process so that livelihoods and standards of living are, at a minimum, restored. Throughout the resettlement process, EMPNG provided support to resettled households and implemented ongoing standard of living and livelihood restoration monitor.ing. Local organizations provided another layer of independent exxonmobil.com/citizenship 55 Case study – Responsible production in Papua New Guinea monitoring and advocacy. For example, a local third party, formerly called the Environmental Law Center, acted as an advocate on behalf of resettled people and helped keep them informed about the resettlement process, as well as their rights and obligations. Engagement with the PNG government As part of our company’s commitment to ethics and integrity, we support the PNG government’s candidacy in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). This voluntary initiative aims to improve governance in resource-rich countries through the disclosure and verification of company payments and government revenues from oil, gas and mining projects. More information about EITI can be found on page 65. We have also engaged with the PNG government about security and human rights in relation to EMPNG’s opera.tions. Our company has a Memorandum of Understanding with the Royal PNG Constabulary, in which it agreed its actions would meet the requirements of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Further, the Constabulary agreed that government security forces deployed in project areas will have received training on the Voluntary Principles. Community and workforce safety The safety of our workers and the communities in the areas where we operate is paramount. During construction, we implemented several community and worker safety initia.tives. For example, more than 14,000 workers participated in the LNG plant’s Incident and Injury Free training program, and we trained more than 2,000 Safety Champions. The Safety Champion program identifies opinion leaders and natural role models and encourages them to instill a safety culture within their work teams. During startup and early production, contractor safety leader.ship workshops were conducted with nearly 200 people from more than 20 different companies. The workshops focused on transferring lessons learned during construction to the production phase and solidifying the expectation of Nobody Gets Hurt. At the end of 2014, our ongoing commitment to safety enabled us to reach 23 million work hours without a lost-time incident across all EMPNG Upstream operations for the year. Local workforce and supplier development Wherever we operate, we strive to maximize employment opportunities for local workers. During peak construction at the end of 2012, the project employed approximately 21,220 workers, 40 percent of whom were Papua New Guineans. In production, EMPNG employs 2,178 workers, more than 70 percent of whom are Papua New Guineans. To help develop the technical and professional skills of our work.force, we established a variety of training programs during construction. Many of these have continued in production. EMPNG also remains committed to the development of local suppliers. Since the start of construction, we have used local companies for the supply of goods and services such as camp equipment, labor hire, transport and materials. Our business development team played an important role in transferring knowledge and skills to increase the capability of PNG suppliers to meet ExxonMobil’s global standards. In 2010, we helped establish the Enterprise Centre, a resource center that provides business training, mentoring and advisory services to local businesses. To date, the Centre has assisted more than 17,000 Papua New Guinean entre.preneurs with business assessments so they can develop nationally competitive companies. By the end of 2014, we had spent approximately $4.4 billion on goods and services in PNG, including more than $1.7 billion spent with companies owned by local landowners. Biodiversity and environmental management Maintaining forests and conserving ecosystems are priorities of EMPNG’s biodiversity strategy. We have implemented management and monitoring measures aimed at minimiz.ing or mitigating the effects of our activities on biodiversity. There are challenges with managing the biodiversity-related expectations of a wide spectrum of stakeholders, and active consultation has been and remains critical to the development and delivery of our biodiversity program. Through a consis.tent and ongoing consultation process, we have developed partnerships and built a trustworthy reputation with many communities, conservation organizations, government depart.ments and other stakeholders. One example of a species we have been helping to pro.tect, in partnership with our stakeholders, is the pig-nosed turtle, known locally as the Piku. The meat and eggs of the turtle have long been a source of food for local people, but increased harvesting has led to a decline in the population of this species. Working with local communities and marine con.servation experts, we have contributed nearly $1 million for ongoing research and conservation of this turtle, with a shared determination to return the Piku population to a sustainable level. This program, led by the University of Canberra and the University of Papua New Guinea, has already had an impact on community attitudes, with a community-led protected area now established for turtle nesting. ExxonMobil works to conserve the Piku turtle population in PNG. As we continue to build our long-term presence in PNG, we remain committed to our culture of responsible corpo.rate citizenship by engaging with local communities and the government; training and developing a local workforce and supplier base; and implementing environmental and biodiversity programs. We will continue to apply lessons learned from the project to other ExxonMobil projects in PNG and around the world. For additional information on the PNG LNG Project, please visit pnglng.com. exxonmobil.com/citizenship 56 An employee supporting operations in Angola. Local development and Our detailed approach to local content development includes building and sustaining local economic growth while also improving social conditions. supply chain management We strive to have a lasting, positive effect on local communities by providing direct and indi rect economic benefits through creating new jobs, developing a technically skilled workforce, strength ening business practices, purchasing local goods and services, and creating investment opportunities.  $8.2 billion in spending with minority- and women owned suppliers in the United States over the past 10 years “Seventeen years ago, the company hired me as part of a local content initiative in Canada. When I first started, local content was a relatively new concept. Now, it is a regular part of our business, no matter where you go. We realize there is a symbiotic relationship with communities that is very powerful. Every day, in every corner of the world, there are teams of ExxonMobil people developing inclusive and healthy local supply chains and workforces that will have a positive impact for years to come.” — Natalie Stirling-Sanders Global manager, local content, supplier diversity and sustainable procurement ExxonMobil’s local content strategy is core to our business. Its elements are formally integrated into our daily processes and guide the way we work today and plan for tomorrow. We have clearly defined management processes, templates and global best practices outlined for use around the world. Rather than focus simply on short-term benefits, we pursue enduring and shared goals with our partners in national and local governments and the community. Using a multi-tiered approach, ExxonMobil focuses on building workforce and sup.plier capabilities in conjunction with our strategic investments in the local community. Local economic growth and development An important aspect of our business is our detailed approach to local content development — which includes building and sustaining local economic growth while also improving social conditions. We often focus on training and educating the local workforce, developing the capacity and capabilities of local vendors who can provide us with goods and services, and improving the livelihoods of community members through strategic community investments. We describe our approach to community investment on page 48 of this report. We tailor our local content approach to the specific needs of each location. We develop local strategies based on factors such as the government’s development priorities, stakeholder expectations, the regulatory environment, the existence and quality of infrastructure, the business environment and social capacity. ExxonMobil participates in various committees and working groups on local content, including co-chairing IPIECA’s local content task force. Local hiring and training Hiring locally can help advance economic development in the countries where we operate and contributes to the continuity of our operations. We provide local employees and con.tractors with technical and leadership skills that will benefit them throughout their careers, including after their work on ExxonMobil projects. This approach enhances the overall capability of the workforce over the long term. We continued to make progress in hiring host country nationals in 2014. For example: • In Angola, 82 percent of our personnel are Angolan, 15 percent of whom are in supervisory or managerial positions. • In Chad, 94 percent of our personnel are Chadian, 62 per.cent of whom are in supervisory or managerial positions. • In Equatorial Guinea, nearly 75 percent of employees are Equatoguinean, 13 percent of whom are in supervisory or managerial positions. • In Indonesia, more than 85 percent of employees are Indonesian, 26 percent of whom are women; local staff hold more than 75 percent of supervisory or managerial positions. • In Nigeria, 92 percent of employees are Nigerian, 14 percent of whom are women; 21 percent of local staff are in supervi.sory or managerial positions. “The rigorous recruitment process at Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc. allows us to identify and recruit top-quality candidates well-suited for our accelerated pro.fessional development model. Through training, mentoring and challenging job assignments, we have developed a highly skilled local workforce. The company and industry’s impact on the broader community has also been positive, as evidenced by significant local business growth.” Borkam Ban-Orngue Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc. HR manager Our ability to hire locally depends on the supply of qualified individuals. Generally, as economic activity in a particular area increases, the demand for local skilled workers also increases, which can result in a shortage of available workers. This is an ongoing challenge, and we address such situations by support.ing education and training initiatives aimed at increasing the pool of individuals from which we can hire. Additionally, to help develop the skills of locally hired employ.ees, we place experienced ExxonMobil expatriates — individu.als working in a country other than their country of permanent residence — in countries where they can share their expertise and mentor local workers for operational and leadership roles. For information on how we developed a local workforce in Papua New Guinea, see the case study beginning on page 54. In addition to supporting businesses in the communities where we operate, we have opened several business support centers that provide services to our global operations. We have 10,000 people working in centers around the world, including in the Czech Republic, Brazil and Thailand. They support our operations with financial, IT and customer services and provide jobs and business opportunities for the communities in which they are located. The Czech Republic Ministry of Health recently recognized the center in the Czech Republic with its “Health Promoting Enterprise” award. The ministry praised the center for its “well-designed programs of caring for workers from various cultural environments and the effort for their well-being at the workplace, and the system of physical activities at the workplace, aimed at reducing the risks of sedentary jobs.” The Ministry of Work and Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Family Friendly Society and the European Union, also honored the center as a “Family Friendly Company” for its work and family life balance, overall work environment, corporate social responsibility activities and pro-family support. Local supplier development Developing and using local vendors for the supply of goods and services are important components of ExxonMobil’s business strategy of nurturing entrepreneurship and fostering competitive businesses. Our goal is to build and maintain a qualified, competitive and sustainable supply chain wherever we operate. In some of the more remote locations where we operate, local suppliers do not always have the experience or capacity to provide goods and services to support our business compet.itively. Our goal, however, is to help them become globally competitive over time. To realize this goal, we conduct training programs covering topics such as health, safety and security; business ethics; costing and bidding; finance and credit; and international standards and codes. We also provide guidance to suppliers when they are unsuccessful in competing for work with us, so they are better positioned for future opportunities with ExxonMobil or other international investors. In Liberia, for example, ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Liberia Limited (EMEPLL), a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, has been working to link local vendors with established global companies to fill gaps in supplier capabilities. EMEPLL fostered a partner.ship between Orion Group and Corporate Resource Specialists International (CRSI), a local supplier, which both provide workers to ExxonMobil operations at the global and country levels, respectively. Through this partnership, CRSI is benefiting from the use of Orion Group’s global infrastructure, such as database Up Close: A local workforce development success story — Thailand Suda Na Songkhla, a Thai national, started with the company in 1991 in an information services support position in the Bangkok office. Utilizing the company’s tuition reimbursement program, she earned her master’s degree in business from Purdue University and moved into more senior positions. Suda is currently the lead manager at the Bangkok Business Support Center, which employs 1,900 staff, 99 percent of whom are also Thai nationals. “I have thoroughly enjoyed my time with ExxonMobil. I learn something new every day. But what I value the most at ExxonMobil is the equal opportunity that is available to each and every employee, whether they are male or female, and no matter their nationality. If you do your best, you will have many opportunities to succeed and develop. I also really appreciate the work flexibility programs at ExxonMobil. As a mother of two young children, the flexibility to balance work and home priorities is critical to my success.” Suda Na Songkhla Manager, corporate processes, applications and Bangkok Business Support Center site leader systems and financial processes. This is shortening the comp.any’s learning curve, while ensuring EMEPLL receives service that meets global standards. Partnerships of this nature are likely to contribute to bridging capacity gaps and ensure inclusion of local enterprises in ever-expanding supply chains. Supply chain management Our business success is directly linked to how well we manage those who work on our behalf. Our global footprint often reaches beyond our own fence line. Anyone who does business with ExxonMobil can affect our operations and our reputation. We rely on our approximately 165,000 suppliers of goods and services to uphold our commitment to operational integrity. Purchases from these suppliers continue to make a significant positive impact on the economies and living stan.dards in the countries where we operate. Supplier selection can take into account issues such as the increased participation of the local community and of histori.cally underrepresented segments of the population, including, but not limited to, women, minorities and indigenous peoples. We comply with specific supplier-related requirements in each country where we do business, and we engage with suppliers and provide feedback where they may need to correct defi.ciencies. We have the option to terminate contracts with third parties if their performance is not acceptable. For information about how ExxonMobil expects suppliers to uphold labor laws and human rights, see page 44. In 2014, we completed phase two of our pilot supplier human rights risk assessment program. The 2014 pilot program objectives were to increase our capacity to identify potential human rights risks in our supply chain and further test the risk assessment process. We used a systematic approach to analyze potential human rights risks, select suppliers and conduct field assessments. While no human rights violations were identified during the pilot, we continue to identify areas for improvement in our suppliers’ ability to prevent issues from occurring. Planned program enhancements in 2015 include new prevention and detection tools focused on improving our social performance and that of our supply chain. Promoting supplier diversity Ensuring we have a diverse supply chain is a company priority. In 2000, we began tracking our spending with minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs), so we could better understand our impact. In 2008, we began to consider the full reach of our supply chain, not just our direct spending, and made efforts to encourage and track the progress of our suppliers in this space. We refer to this as our Tier 2 program. In 2010, we set a goal to spend $1 billion annually on U.S. MWBEs by 2012. We met this goal in 2011 and have maintained a level of spending greater than $1 billion in each of the past four years. Over the past 10 years, we have seen our spending with diverse suppliers double. In addition, since 2008, we have seen an annual increase in the amount our ExxonMobil spending on U.S. minority- and women-owned suppliers1 Millions of dollars  2005 2006 2007 2008  $492 $576 $582 $615  2009 $887 2010 $841 2011 $1,068 2012 $1,001 2013 $1,024 2014 $1,108 1Includes direct ExxonMobil spending and that of our suppliers (Tier 2 spending). suppliers have spent on procurement from MWBEs on our behalf. As our program has matured, we have started to expand our demographic reach inside the United States. Our supplier diversity database, where interested suppliers from tradi.tionally underrepresented groups in the United States can register an interest in working for ExxonMobil, allows for the self-identification of many groups other than women and minorities. Over the years, we have added more categories to this database. In 2014, we added categories for busi.nesses owned by members of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) community and by Persons with Disabilities. Efforts to ensure a diverse supply chain outside the United States are also a priority. Participation of businesses owned by indigenous peoples has been one of our focus areas in many countries. We are also working closely with WEConnect International to increase the participation in our supply chain of women-owned businesses around the world. In addition to providing financial support, we have participated in WEConnect International advisory councils in Brazil, Canada, India, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru, South Africa and Europe. In 2014, we spent $405 million with women-, indigenous- and other minority-owned businesses outside the United States. WEConnect International  ExxonMobil is consistently recognized as a leader in supplier diversity efforts. In 2014, ExxonMobil Canada, as operator of the Hebron Project, accepted the inaugural Corporation of the Year Award from the Newfoundland & Labrador Organization of Women Entrepreneurs (NLOWE) for the Hebron Project’s contribution to the development of women entrepreneurs and the active inclusion of women-owned businesses in the supply chain. NLOWE award video Up Close: Working with diverse suppliers in the United States ExxonMobil seeks to build constructive, long-lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers. Two of our suppliers in the United States, Valdes Engineering and Cole Chemical, have been working with ExxonMobil for many years. Valdes Engineering, a Hispanic-owned company, began work.ing with Mobil Oil in 1994. The company provides project devel.opment, execution and off-site detailed engineering services for ExxonMobil’s Joliet (Illinois) Refinery. Valdes Engineering has grown its business by focusing efforts on learning about the culture of safety, a commitment to quality and an expectation of high performance standards from ExxonMobil and other com.panies. By incorporating these values into its business model, Valdes has grown from 10 employees to more than 200 today. Throughout its 20-year history with ExxonMobil, Valdes Engi.neering has completed nearly 1,000 company jobs, ranging from general engineering support to major capital projects. Cole Chemical is a distributor of chemicals, lubricants, fuels, resins and specialty gases, with blending, warehousing and custom-packaging capabilities for domestic and international markets. Since Cole Chemical’s start in 1980, the company has been a supplier to ExxonMobil. The company began blending, drumming and warehousing chemicals for ExxonMobil’s oper.ations in Beaumont, Texas, and has now expanded to sales of additional chemical supplies. “ExxonMobil was one of my first four clients when I began in 1980. They have constantly challenged us to evolve and improve with them and are a big reason we now generate revenues of $85 million per year.” Donna Fujimoto Cole President and CEO Cole Chemical & Distributing Inc. Cole Chemical is a minority- and women-owned company with a commitment to hiring and including minorities and women in its own supply chain, in direct alignment with ExxonMobil’s values and goals. Up Close: Diverse supplier development in Nigeria In 2014, the ExxonMobil Foundation partnered with WEConnect International — an organization that empowers women business owners to access global supply chains — to host more than 300 women during four “meet the buyer” sessions in Nigeria. These one-day workshops in Abuja, Akwa Ibom, Lagos and Port Harcourt afforded the women business owners the opportunity to network with ExxonMobil and WEConnect International representatives. The goals of the sessions included: • Providing insight into the barriers and options that exist in accessing corporate business opportunities; • Training women-owned businesses on how to interact with multinational companies; • Enabling women entrepreneurs to become more compet.itive suppliers through training on procurement practices, total system cost reduction and strategic collaboration; and • Educating women-owned businesses on ExxonMobil diversity programs. The one-day workshops allowed participants to share business profiles, strategies, challenges and future plans, and introduced the women to several ExxonMobil Foundation-supported part.ners and programs, including Vital Voices, Solar Sister and Plan International’s Global Women in Management workshop. Additionally, linkages were made with government agencies focused on women to help ensure women are able to access the resources needed to grow and sustain their businesses. As a result of the workshop, two Nigerian women-owned companies, Le Look Nigeria and Mazuka Nigeria Ltd., secured business with ExxonMobil. We are working with WEConnect International to use the results from these work.shops to continue mentoring and fostering the sustainability of women-owned businesses in Nigeria. Exxon Mobil Corporation headquarters, located in Irving, Texas. A commitment to ethics and integrity is a core aspect of ExxonMobil’s company culture. Everyone is expected to uphold the highest ethical standards of business integrity. 