Addressing the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to achieve significant progress on global economic, social and environmental challenges by 2030. Although directed at governments, the private sector and civil society play an important role in support of governments’ national plans. ExxonMobil contributes to certain aspects of all 17 SDGs. In this report, we feature eight SDGs to which ExxonMobil is making significant contributions. We include the most relevant SDG icons (below) that correspond with each section of this 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights at the top of each section page. Outlooks, projections, estimates, goals, descriptions of business and community plans, research efforts and other statements of future events or conditions in this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including future earnings, returns to investors and other areas of financial and operating performance; future global energy supply, demand and mix; future distributions; proved and other reserves; reserve and resource additions and recoveries; the future effectiveness of safety, health, environmental and other sustainability risk and impact management processes; efficiency gains; and the timing and impact of future technologies could differ materially due to factors, including: • Changes in demand, supply and pricing for oil and natural gas and other factors affecting the oil, gas, petroleum and petrochemical industries; • Political and regulatory factors, including war, security disturbances, national tax policies, trade policies, environmental policies and the impact of international accords and treaties; • Changes in population size, purchasing power and consumer preferences; • The timely completion of current exploration, development and construction projects; • Actions of competitors, including the development of competing technologies; • The outcome of current and future research efforts and the ability to bring new technologies to scale on a cost-competitive basis; • Technical and operating factors; and • Other factors discussed in the document, Factors Affecting Future Results. Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names including ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso and XTO Energy. For convenience and simplicity, those terms (and terms such as corporation, company, our, we and its) are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. ExxonMobil is a publicly traded company. The New York Stock Exchange is the principal exchange on which Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock (symbol XOM) is traded. References to the resources, resource base, and recoverable resources, along with similar terms refer to the total remaining estimated quantities of oil and natural gas that are expected to be ultimately recoverable. ExxonMobil refers to new discoveries and acquisitions of discovered resources as resource additions. The resource base includes quantities of oil and natural gas classified as proved reserves as well as quantities that are not yet classified as proved reserves, but that are expected to be ultimately recoverable. The term “resource base” is not intended to correspond to SEC definitions such as “probable” or “possible” reserves. The term “in-place” refers to those quantities of oil and natural gas estimated to be contained in known accumulations and includes recoverable and unrecoverable amounts. “Potential” resource amounts are not currently included in the resource base. The term “project” as used in this release can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency reports. CHAIRMAN’S LETTER I’m proud to share our Sustainability Report for 2018. It details our company’s commitment to responsibly manage our environmental, social and governance performance. Our industry plays a critical role providing the energy that supports economic growth and improves the quality of life for billions of people around the world. Over the next several decades, populations are projected to grow and the middle class will continue to expand – dynamics that will further the demand for energy. Meeting this demand will require significant investment and new production in the energy sector. Increased demand for energy will also impact emission levels, which underscores the need to continue to pursue emission reduction efforts to mitigate the risks of climate change. ExxonMobil is helping address this dual challenge in a variety of ways through researching and developing next-generation technologies, developing products that help customers reduce their emissions, improving energy efficiency and advancing public policy solutions. On the technology front, we’re stepping up efforts to research potential breakthrough technology to reduce emissions through collaborations with governments, more than 80 universities, civil society groups and other industry partners. Recently, we entered into an agreement with the U.S. National Laboratories to commit up to $100 million to research lower-emissions solutions, including carbon capture and storage. Our decade of research and development of lower-carbon biofuels from algae is progressing through large-scale outdoor testing. We are also furthering our research into evaluating the use of cellulosic sugars from agricultural waste to produce biofuel. In addition, we reached agreements with carbon capture technology companies such as Mosaic Materials and Global Thermostat to evaluate ways to scale these promising technologies. And we’re continuing research into how fuel cells might play a role in significantly reducing the costs of carbon capture. On the policy front, we support the Paris Agreement as a global framework to coordinate government policies. We also support market-based approaches to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including further regulation of methane emissions and a carbon tax. We believe market-based policies that place a uniform, predictable cost on greenhouse gas emissions more effectively drive consumer behavior and support technology innovation. In 2018, we provided financial support for “Americans for Carbon Dividends,” a national education and advocacy campaign to promote the policy goals of the Climate Leadership Council. The CLC calls for the adoption of a carbon fee with the revenues returned to citizens, coupled with regulatory simplification. We also joined the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, an international CEO-led energy company effort dedicated to developing practical solutions to climate change in areas such as carbon capture and storage, methane emission reductions and energy and transportation efficiency. While the dual challenge is a critical issue for our company and industry, we are also actively focused on other key sustainability issues including: • Advancing worker safety, where we’ve seen an almost 80 percent reduction in our lost-time incident rate since 2000; • Reducing plastic waste, where we recently became a founding member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste; • Advancing human rights by helping to train nearly 17,000 people on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights; and • Creating positive economic development in the communities where we operate. On this last point, two examples of recent developments stand out. In Papua New Guinea, we’ve increased the percentage of Papua New Guineans in our workforce to 68 percent. In Guyana, the percentage of Guyanese in our local workforce has reached 54 percent, and is expected to increase as oil production begins. Also in Guyana, we’ve established a Centre for Local Business Development to help local businesses enhance their skills, improve competitiveness and participate in the development of the country’s new resource. More than 1,500 Guyanese companies are registered with the center. ExxonMobil and its contractors spent nearly $60 million with almost 500 Guyanese vendors in 2018. This year’s Sustainability Report contains many more examples of how ExxonMobil is making a positive contribution to society, and I hope you find this report helpful in understanding our approach. I appreciate your interest and engagement in these shared priorities, and welcome your feedback. Sincerely, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Darren W. Woods, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer EXXONMOBIL AND SUSTAINABILITY ExxonMobil is committed to producing the energy and chemical products that are essential to modern life, economic development and improved standards of living. In doing this, we are also committed to protecting our people, the environment and the well-being of communities where we operate. This 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights provides a summary of key dimensions of sustainability, including our environmental, social and governance performance. For additional information, please visit our website. 2018 GLOBAL OPERATIONS ExxonMobil maintains a diverse portfolio of resources, projects and assets across our businesses. For information on our financial performance and investment decisions, visit our Digital Annual Report. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our goal is to foster mutual understanding, trust and cooperation with stakeholder groups on sustainability topics. We interact with a variety of stakeholders via community meetings, digital and social media, corporate publications and one-on-one discussions. Maintaining an open dialogue provides opportunities to listen to concerns, discuss approaches and share plans. Across stakeholder groups, from communities and nongovernmental organizations to employees and shareholders, we continue to see broad interest in our environmental, social and governance performance. The table below highlights our key stakeholder groups, their typical areas of interest and ExxonMobil’s engagement approach. STAKEHOLDER GROUPS COMMUNITIES CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES GOVERNMENTS NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS SHAREHOLDERS SUPPLIERS COMMON AREAS OF INTEREST Air emissions Environmental performance Community investments Grievance management Economic development Human rights Education Operational impacts Employment opportunities Developing innovative Supply chain management products and technology Sustainability and Safety environmental issues Benefits Professional development Diversity and inclusion Safety Health and wellness Workplace security Energy supply and security Safety Environmental performance Taxes and other revenue sources Climate change Human rights Employment opportunities Health and wellness Ethics and integrity Diversity and inclusion Impact assessments Education Local supplier development Climate change Transparency Environmental performance Economic development Human rights Health Social issues Education Board composition Governance practices Business performance Policy engagement Climate change Risk management Environmental performance Local business opportunities Expectations for suppliers Local supplier development Diversity and inclusion Operational integrity Education Safety Human rights Environmental performance ENGAGEMENT APPROACH Communicate with local residents in areas where we operate through direct correspondence and group meetings Dedicate personnel responsible for community engagement as well as receiving, tracking, analyzing and responding to    potential community concerns Establish channels for communities to provide input or seek information Use social media platforms to share project updates with a diverse audience Contributed $211 million to communities around the world in 2018 Collaborate across industries to identify customer solutions to sustainability issues Cultivate an open dialogue with our customers and provide education on the market-based approach to sustainable solutions Provide customer service numbers and support marketing teams in responding to customer questions Support the professional development of our more than 71,000 employees globally Invest in worker health by providing voluntary health programs Share feedback and raise topics of interest through managers, internal surveys, company forums and a confidential hotline Support employee-led resource groups that foster a culture of diversity and inclusion Use social media platforms to share information Engage host governments to maintain the safety and security of operations while respecting human rights Monitor and participate in transparency initiatives in countries where we operate Meet with representatives and leaders to provide information and insights on policies that may affect our business Work to support responsible economic, energy and environmental policies and help identify solutions Collaborate on technical projects of mutual interest Conduct one-on-one meetings Engage in corporate and foundation philanthropic activities with nongovernmental organizations Participate in conference events to exchange views, information and expertise Participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives to enable progress on key policy issues Partner with grantees to improve health, education and job opportunities in local communities Engage directly with shareholders to understand input and feedback, including shareholder proposals Disseminate information to our shareholders through SEC filings, investor days, investor presentations and other publications Enable engagement between non-employee directors and shareholders, and facilitate communication from any interested    party to non-employee directors via our corporate governance page Host annual shareholder meetings to share information on company highlights and answer questions from shareholders Hold forums with suppliers to provide information on our safety, environmental and human rights practices Participate in organizations dedicated to building local supplier capabilities Share our supplier, vendor and contractor expectations Conduct regular supplier audits and anti-corruption due diligence in relevant countries Support U.S. businesses owned by traditionally underrepresented groups through ExxonMobil’s U.S. supplier diversity database and supplier forums EXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY PANEL STATEMENT ExxonMobil’s External Sustainability Advisory Panel independently reviews our sustainability activities, including this report. We formed the panel in 2009 to understand additional external perspectives related to environmental, social and governance topics. Introduction ExxonMobil’s External Sustainability Advisory Panel (ESAP) publishes an annual independent review of the company’s Sustainability Report. The ESAP is composed of academics, nongovernmental organization representatives and former government officials with expertise in environmental, social and governance issues. ESAP statement This statement represents our views on the progress and quality of ExxonMobil’s sustainability reporting and transparency. In recognition of our time and efforts, ExxonMobil provided a donation on behalf of panelists to nonprofit organizations of our choice and reimbursed relevant travel expenses. This ESAP statement is not an official endorsement of ExxonMobil’s Sustainability Report, the corporation, or its policies and strategies. During our review of this year’s report, the panel identified a number of common themes and provided a summary of our general feedback as well as specific feedback on ExxonMobil’s climate reporting. ExxonMobil’s Sustainability Report and Energy & Carbon Summary (ECS) together offer a window into the complexities involved in managing climate change issues for a global oil and gas company. The ECS provides a robust analysis of global progress toward a 2°C scenario, and its conclusions about the pace of progress to date are generally consistent with the concerns outlined in the 2018 Special Report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. We were pleased to see that ExxonMobil provided additional information on some of its new partnerships to expand the company’s investments in long-term greenhouse gas emissions reduction efforts and increase collaboration to pursue lower-emission technologies. These range from participation in industry-wide platforms such as the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative to alliances with public and private research and innovation organizations. In particular, investments in emerging technologies such as quantum computing and research to bring biofuels and carbon capture to commercial scale could provide significant opportunities for investors, society, and the company itself. However, assessing whether the level of such R&D investments in lower-carbon technologies is at an adequate scale, given the magnitude of the societal risk and the size of the company, requires additional context and data in ExxonMobil’s disclosures. We believe a discussion of the overall industry context and challenges associated with ExxonMobil’s operations, exploration, research and development, and long-term planning would facilitate better understanding of the scale and pace of the company’s climate change response as well as other sustainability activities. To that end, we believe that ExxonMobil’s discussion of each sustainability topic in its future reports should provide: • Business Context: How does the company’s performance on the topic contribute to its long-term strategy? • Societal Context: How much of a difference can the company make on key societal issues? Are the company’s sustainability actions and investments commensurate with their potential impact, both to the business and to society? Are there opportunities to identify areas of improvement and enhance the effectiveness of the company’s programs and partnerships? For example, further understanding ExxonMobil’s strategy for engagement with communities where it operates would provide both societal and performance context; how does ExxonMobil ensure adequate community representation in regions where specific groups are commonly underrepresented? For complex or high-profile engagements involving multiple stakeholder groups, providing more insight into the decision-making process would demonstrate ExxonMobil’s commitments to local communities in practice. The company also has an opportunity to provide additional data and examples on how its activities are contributing to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals in the countries where it operates through its investments in local communities, institutions, and infrastructure. Increased transparency and commitment will be essential to ExxonMobil’s ongoing sustainability progress. We believe ExxonMobil has an opportunity to further develop quantifiable goals that reflect current economic realities about energy demand, but also demonstrate the company’s R&D, operational, and public policy commitments to address the enormous global climate challenge. The goals may not be simple and may change over time. We believe ExxonMobil made progress in 2018 and is positioned to play a leadership role in setting bolder goals and engaging the broader public through more transparency and dialogue about the most pressing challenges we all face. Sincerely, Craig H. Benson Jane Nelson Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science Director of Corporate Responsibility University of Virginia Initiative Harvard University Kennedy School of Mark A. Cohen Government Professor of Management and Law Vanderbilt University Salil Tripathi Owen Graduate School of Management Senior Adviser, Global Issues Institute for Human Rights and Business Frank Loy Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs U.S. Department of State August 2019 For past panel feedback statements, visit: exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport The External Sustainability Advisory Panel met with employees at ExxonMobil’s Research and Engineering Technology Center in Clinton, New Jersey, in 2018. From left: Mark Cohen; Craig Benson; Vijay Swarup, vice president of research and development at ExxonMobil’s Research and Engineering Company; Kelsey McNeely, biofuels program leader at ExxonMobil; Jane Nelson; Frank Loy; and Salil Tripathi. ENVIRONMENT ExxonMobil’s diverse portfolio of projects requires us to work in remote and sensitive environments including deepwater and biodiverse locations. Our environmental management approach is guided by an understanding of the potential environmental impacts of our operations and a commitment to sustainably develop, maintain and operate projects using appropriate standards that enable us to ‘Protect Tomorrow. Today.’ Tanya Hintz, Cold Lake environmental and regulatory lead, collects native plant seeds from Imperial’s Cold Lake operation site in Canada for reclamation and restoration projects. 