MANAGING CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS ExxonMobil works to meet the world’s growing demand for energy while reducing environmental impacts and the risks of climate change. To mitigate greenhouse gas emissions from our operations, ExxonMobil focuses on increasing energy efficiency and reducing flaring, venting and other emissions. We deploy proven technologies, such as cogeneration and carbon capture and storage, and we conduct and support research to develop breakthrough, lower-emission technologies. Since 2000, ExxonMobil has invested nearly $10 billion in projects to research, develop and deploy lower-emission energy solutions. ExxonMobil also continues to expand collaborative efforts with other companies and academic institutions focused on these areas. Recent additions include a commitment to spend up to $100 million over 10 years on research with the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory and National Energy Technology Laboratory to bring lower-emission technologies to commercial scale. Others involve agreements with companies, such as Global Thermostat, which is working on technology that pulls CO2 molecules directly from the air, and Mosaic Materials, which is using porous solids, known as metal-organic frameworks, to separate CO2 from air or flue gas. We also work with more than 80 universities around the world to explore next-generation energy technologies. For more information, please see the Developing Innovative Products and Technology section of this report. While we continue to make progress in finding ways to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions from our operations, emissions may increase or decrease over time as a result of the changing nature of our business. For example, in 2018 ExxonMobil’s net equity greenhouse gas emissions totaled 124 million CO2-equivalent metric tons, which was a slight increase over the previous year, 2017, but lower than 2016 emissions. The slight increase was due to growth in our operations. In 2018, greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions equaled 21.5 million metric tons. Over the past 10 years, we have avoided 162 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions. A Synthetic Genomics Inc. researcher tests algae samples. Algae has the potential to become a biofuel of the future. Advanced biofuels represent one of many potential breakthrough technologies in which ExxonMobil is investing to seek ways to reduce emissions. We report greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis, demonstrating a share of emissions from any facility or operation in which ExxonMobil holds a financial interest, with the share reflecting the equity interest. ExxonMobil seeks to improve energy efficiency and mitigate emissions in a variety of ways. We also evaluate opportunities to purchase renewable energy for our operations. In 2018, for example, we signed 12-year agreements with Lincoln Clean Energy, under which ExxonMobil will purchase 500 megawatts of electricity generated by wind and solar to power our operations in Texas. Purchasing this renewable power is expected to avoid an estimated 800,000 metric tons of CO2 per year and put ExxonMobil in the top 10 global corporate wind and solar buyers in 2018. Energy efficiency Using energy more efficiently is a powerful tool to reduce emissions and costs. ExxonMobil works to improve efficiency across all its operations. The electricity used in ExxonMobil’s operations in 2018 represents more than 10 percent of our net equity greenhouse gas emissions. According to the Solomon Refining Industry Survey, ExxonMobil is among the world’s most energy-efficient refining companies. Cogeneration is a process that improves efficiency by simultaneously producing electricity while capturing useful heat or steam for industrial processes. We have interests in approximately 5,400 megawatts of cogeneration capacity in more than 100 installations around the world. This capacity is equivalent to the annual energy needed to power 4.3 million U.S. homes. We are also working to reduce flaring, venting and fugitive emissions in our operations. Since 2000, we eliminated or captured and stored 400 million metric tons of CO2, equivalent to the energy-related CO2 emissions of about 55 million U.S. homes over the same period, using a variety of technologies. Methane emissions ExxonMobil is taking a leadership role in methane emission reduction efforts. In 2018, we announced our intention to reduce corporate-wide methane emissions by 15 percent by 2020, compared with 2016. As of August 2019, methane emissions from our U.S. unconventional production and midstream operations were down by nearly 20 percent, compared to 2016, and we are on track to meet our company-wide methane reduction commitments by 2020. To achieve this progress, we implemented cost-effective methods that included structured leak detection and repair programs, which use optical natural gas imaging cameras to identify leaks for prompt repair, and replacement of high-bleed, pneumatic devices with lower-emission technology. Since 2017, ExxonMobil has replaced more than 80 percent of the approximately 1,250 high-bleed pneumatic devices across our U.S. unconventional operations. In 2018, methane emissions from our global operations totaled 7 million CO2-equivalent metric tons, which on a company-wide basis was the same as the previous year. Yvette Longonje, project manager, at ExxonMobil’s cogeneration facility in Beaumont, Texas. Although reductions were achieved in U.S. unconventional production and midstream operations, increases were seen in other areas due to production growth. Overall, the company remains on track to meet its 15 percent methane reduction commitment by 2020. We support the Methane Guiding Principles for reducing methane emissions across the natural gas value chain, which we signed in 2017. The guiding principles are being implemented in collaboration with many stakeholders, including the Environmental Defense Fund, the International Energy Agency, the International Gas Union, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative Climate Investment Fund, the Rocky Mountain Institute, the Sustainable Gas Institute, the Energy and Resources Institute, and United Nations Environment. The principles provide a framework for reducing methane emissions, improving accuracy of methane emissions data and advocating for sound policies and regulations on methane emissions. We have advocated in the United States for a cost-effective, federal regulatory standard to manage methane emissions for both new and existing oil and natural gas facilities. We will continue to work constructively with state and federal regulators, industry and nongovernmental organizations to develop and implement effective methane-emission regulations. Flaring Flaring from our combined upstream, downstream and chemical operations totaled 4.0 million metric tons in 2018, representing an increase of 200,000 metric tons compared with 2017. The increase in 2018 was primarily due to the start-up of growth projects in our upstream business. 2018 flaring was down more than 1 million metric tons, or 19 percent, from 2016. We continue to focus our efforts to reduce flaring associated with oil and natural gas production and processing across ExxonMobil operations to meet our target of a 25 percent reduction by 2020, compared with 2016. 2018 performance highlights REDUCING ELIMINATED 21.5M 5,400 METHANE OR CAPTURED METRIC TONS MEGAWATTS EMISSIONS AND STORED AVOIDED COGENERATION CAPACITY 400M In 2018, our methane emissions totaled METRIC TONS In 2018, greenhouse gas emissions avoided as a 7 million CO2-equivalent SINCE 2000 We have interests in metric tons and we result of actions taken by approximately 5,400 are on track to reduce ExxonMobil equaled megawatts of cogeneration methane emissions by 21.5 million metric tons. Since 2000, we have capacity in more than 15% by 2020, compared Over the past 10 years, we eliminated or captured and 100 installations around the with 2016. have avoided 162 million stored 400 million metric tons world, which helps generate metric tons of greenhouse of CO2, which is equivalent power more efficiently and gas emissions. to the energy-related CO2 leads to reduced greenhouse emissions associated with gas emissions. about 55 million U.S. homes. Spotlight Imperial plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity at oil sands facilities ExxonMobil’s Canadian affiliate, Imperial, plans to apply advanced technologies and improvements in efficiency to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of its operated oil sands facilities. Imperial’s goal is to achieve a 10 percent decrease in greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 2023, using 2016 as a baseline.* The application of next-generation oil recovery technology at its Cold Lake operation and improvements in reliability at its Kearl site are two of the key drivers behind the planned reductions. Imperial is also evaluating the first commercial application of a breakthrough cyclic solvent process for producing oil from an oil sands deposit at its Cold Lake site. The process could help eliminate the use of steam and reduce emissions intensity by up to 90 percent in certain areas of the field, compared to existing technology. * Governmental, legal or regulatory changes could directly or indirectly delay or otherwise impact greenhouse gas emissions intensity-reduction measures. DEVELOPING INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY Daniel Vertucci, senior engineer, tests high-performance lubricant products for motor vehicles at ExxonMobil’s testing grounds in Nevada. We are conducting scientific research to develop the next generation of energy technologies and products. Our work includes advanced biofuels, carbon capture and storage, natural gas technologies and new energy efficiency processes. In addition to our in-house capabilities, we collaborate with leading research and technology companies, national laboratories and universities, and others involved in breakthrough energy research. ExxonMobil’s Emerging Technologies program brings together executives, scientists and engineers from across our businesses to identify and evaluate long-term, strategic research opportunities. ExxonMobil invests about $1 billion annually in research and development across our businesses, an ongoing commitment to fundamental science and innovation. ExxonMobil employs more than 20,000 scientists and engineers, including more than 2,200 with Ph.D.s. We collaborate with approximately 80 universities around the world to explore new energy technologies. In particular, we collaborate with broad-based energy centers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Princeton University, Stanford University, the University of Texas and in Singapore at the Nanyang Technological University and National University of Singapore. We are also working with the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory and National Energy Technology Laboratory to bring lower-emission technologies to commercial scale. We have agreements with technology companies such as Global Thermostat and Mosaic Materials on advanced carbon capture technologies, and with IBM, where we agreed to jointly research the use of quantum computing to develop next-generation energy and manufacturing technologies. Natural gas Natural gas is a versatile, abundant and lower-emission fuel. The use of natural gas in power generation plays an important role in reducing global emissions. When considering lifecycle emissions, natural gas emits up to 60 percent lower greenhouse gas emissions and produces significantly fewer air pollutants than coal for power generation. Natural gas also provides a reliable source of power to supplement renewable energy when wind or solar power is not available. ExxonMobil is one of the largest natural gas producers in the world and a leader in liquefied natural gas technology. Liquefied natural gas enables us to transport natural gas from supply centers to customers safely and cost effectively. We are working to expand access to liquefied natural gas around the world. Information on methane management associated with our natural gas production can be found in the Managing Climate Change Risks section of this report and on our website. Advanced fuels and lubricants ExxonMobil’s family of high-performance and synthetic lubricants delivers improved vehicle efficiency and helps our customers reduce their emissions. Our synthetic lubricants require less frequent replacement than conventional motor oils. For example, our Mobil 1™ Advanced Fuel Economy synthetic motor oil can improve fuel economy compared to other motor oils. Premium fuels such as Synergy™ gasoline and diesel can also help consumers improve gas mileage. ExxonMobil is progressing several multi-billion-dollar refinery expansion projects. For example, at our facility in Singapore, we are working to produce higher-value products and increase production of lubricant base stocks to meet growing demand. Once complete, the project will also produce cleaner marine fuels that will comply with the International Maritime Organization’s 0.50 percent sulfur cap. Engineering, procurement and construction activities have begun, and startup is anticipated in 2023. Chemical materials ExxonMobil’s chemical business develops materials that are used to provide a wide range of benefits in many consumer applications. For example, automotive manufacturers use ExxonMobil’s advanced, lightweight plastics to reduce vehicle weight and deliver greater fuel efficiency. For every 10 percent decrease in vehicle weight, fuel economy improves by an estimated 7 percent. Products made from our resins also help extend the shelf life of fresh food by days or even weeks, thereby improving food safety and reducing waste. Visit ExxonMobil’s Energy & Carbon Summary and the Waste Management section of this report for more information. Advanced biofuels ExxonMobil funds a broad portfolio of advanced biofuels research programs. For example, ExxonMobil recently signed a joint research agreement with Clariant to evaluate the use of cellulosic sugars from sources such as agricultural waste and residues to produce biofuel. This partnership expands on an existing joint research agreement between ExxonMobil and Renewable Energy Group, Inc. (REG), in which the companies successfully validated the ability of REG technology to convert sugars from cellulosic biomass into biodiesel through a single-step process. The agreement with Clariant enables ExxonMobil and REG to advance a key stage in the overall cellulosic conversion process, which could potentially lead to the development of scalable biodiesel technology. 2018 performance highlights TARGETING 1/5 10K OF WORLD’S BARRELS PER CARBON DAY OF ALGAE CAPTURE BIOFUEL CAPACITY ExxonMobil is working We maintain a working on the technological interest in more than capability needed one-fifth of the world’s total to produce 10,000 barrels carbon capture capacity. of algae biofuel per day by 2025. In 2018, we captured approximately 7 million metric tons of CO2 for storage. While already a leader in CCS, we are working toward expanding our capacity and are evaluating multiple opportunities that have the potential to be commercially viable through the convergence of advantaged technologies and a supportive policy environment. Visit ExxonMobil’s Energy & Carbon Summary for more information on ExxonMobil’s efforts on CCS. Please visit our website for information on spill performance, managing impacts to air and water, and operating in sensitive environments. * Source: Global CCS Institute. Data updated as of April 2018 and based on cumulative anthropogenic carbon dioxide capture volume. Anthropogenic CO2, for the purposes of this calculation, means CO2 that without carbon capture and storage would have been emitted to the atmosphere, including, but not limited to: reservoir CO2 from gas fields, CO2 emitted during production and CO2 emitted during combustion. It does not include natural CO2 produced solely for enhanced oil recovery. 20K SCIENTISTS AND ENGINEERS ExxonMobil employs more than 20,000 scientists and engineers, including more than 2,200 Ph.D.s. $1B INVESTED ANNUALLY ExxonMobil invests an estimated $1 billion a year in research and development across our businesses. ExxonMobil also has an extensive research program related to algae-based biofuels. Algae biofuels have the potential to supplement petroleum-based fuels with minimal modifications to current transportation infrastructure. They also have the potential to yield more energy per area of land than other biofuels and can be grown on land considered unsuitable for agriculture. In addition, algae can be grown using only saltwater, unlike traditional ethanol, which requires large volumes of freshwater. ExxonMobil is targeting the technical capability to produce 10,000 barrels of algae biofuels per day by 2025. Carbon capture and storage Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is the process of capturing and injecting CO2 into underground geological formations for permanent storage. This process helps reduce the amount of CO2 released into the atmosphere. Since 1970, ExxonMobil has cumulatively captured more CO2 than any other company, accounting for more than 40 percent of cumulative CO2 captured.* We maintain a working interest in more than one-fifth of the world’s total carbon capture capacity. WASTE MANAGEMENT Reducing plastic waste within our operations ExxonMobil recognizes the public’s concern regarding plastic waste and prioritizes eliminating unnecessary waste from our operations to increase efficiency and minimize potential impacts to the environment. As a large energy company with a chemical business, we recognize the importance of responsibly managing plastic pellet loss within our operations. Although laws and regulations related to reporting of plastic pellet loss to the environment vary by jurisdiction, we are working to implement a common global reporting standard across our operations, which we plan to have in place in 2020. In 2018, ExxonMobil had no reportable plastic pellet losses. Our aim is to have zero pellet loss to the environment. Plant personnel monitor our facilities via routine daily rounds. When a loss of containment is discovered, loose pellets are promptly contained and cleaned up. Pellet recovery equipment, such as skimmers and sieves, is also in place to recover pellets captured in our drainage systems. ExxonMobil also actively participates in industry initiatives related to pellet loss. For example, since 2008, we have been a member of Operation Clean Sweep (OCS), a product stewardship program of the American Chemistry Council and the Plastics Industry Association. OCS helps drive implementation of best practices, including working toward achieving zero pellet loss to the environment across the industry. ExxonMobil has incorporated OCS principles into our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS), which is applied at our plastics production facilities around the world. OIMS requires a regular assessment of our procedures to ensure they are effective, and the implementation of improvement measures if needed. ExxonMobil’s chemical business also encourages third-party logistics suppliers delivering resins from our facilities to implement similar processes to prevent pellet loss, for example by incorporating OCS principles into our Supplier Relationship Management process. ExxonMobil was a founding member of the Chemical Industry Responsible Care program, which we implement through OIMS. Responsible Care focuses on helping chemical companies achieve and sustain operational excellence in the areas of safety, environment, product stewardship, security, community engagement and health management. In 2018, ExxonMobil Chemical Company was awarded a Responsible Care Exceptional Merit award in the Energy Efficiency category. In June 2019, ExxonMobil received the Responsible Care Company of the Year award, which included performance achievements during 2018. Helping customers reduce their plastic waste Over the next few decades, population and income growth are expected to create more demand for plastics, which help support safety, convenience and improved living standards. Plastic packaging can make food more convenient to transport, help reduce spoilage and improve food safety for consumers. ExxonMobil recognizes post-consumer plastic waste is an environmental challenge in parts of the world due to lack of effective waste collection and management. Society’s solutions to this challenge will require collective support, innovation and collaboration on a global basis. Nurfzailah Binte Razali, laboratory technician, inspects plastic pellets at ExxonMobil’s olefins plant in Singapore. We are continuing to develop polymers that enable customers to 2018 performance highlights use less plastic and make the plastic they use easier to recycle. For example, our new performance polyethylene resins enable our customers to meet their performance needs, often with more than 20 percent thinner, lighter-weight products, thus reducing materials consumption and waste. Our Vistamaxx™ performance polymers help customers increase the amount of recycled content in plastics without degrading performance. We are also assessing technology options to economically convert plastic waste to petrochemical feedstock by leveraging reliable, large-scale chemical processes. In 2018, ExxonMobil became the first energy company to join The Recycling Partnership, a nonprofit organization dedicated to increasing recycling in the United States. The Recycling Partnership uses corporate investments to improve recycling practices across the country. We have committed $1.5 million to help develop sustainable solutions and support activities such as curbside recycling programs. The partnership has supported more than 1,000 communities, including 50 million homes, and has diverted 180 million pounds of recyclable waste away from landfills to recycling centers. In 2018, ExxonMobil also became a member of Materials Recovery for the Future, a nonprofit research program focused on identification and demonstration of single-stream curbside recycling solutions for flexible plastic packaging materials. The primary objective of the program is to demonstrate the technical and economic feasibility of recycling household flexible plastic packaging through community municipal recycling. Plans include recycling of polyethylene and other flexible films, wraps, bags and pouches. In January 2019, ExxonMobil became a founding member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, an organization consisting of more than 40 companies from across the plastics and consumer goods value chain that is committed to advancing potential scalable solutions to reduce plastic waste in the environment. Members of the alliance have already collectively committed more than $1 billion to fund those activities. Solutions to address the challenge of post-consumer plastic waste will require collective support, innovation and collaboration on a global basis – from resin producers, waste management companies, consumer brands and retailers to nongovernmental organizations, governments and consumers. ExxonMobil is committed to working with members of the alliance and other key stakeholders to help address the challenge. Achieving validation for waste reduction initiatives at our lubricant plants ALLIANCE TO END PLASTIC WASTE FOUNDING MEMBER ExxonMobil is a founding member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, an organization that is committed to advancing potential scalable solutions to reduce plastic waste in the environment. Spotlight DIVERTED 50K TONS OF WASTE ExxonMobil’s lubricant operations achieved Zero Waste to Landfill Silver Validation from Underwriters Laboratories, diverting more than 50,000 tons of waste from our global facilities. NO REPORTABLE PLASTIC PELLET LOSSES TO THE ENVIRONMENT IN 2018 ExxonMobil is working to implement a common global reporting standard across our operations. 1ST ENERGY COMPANY TO JOIN THE RECYCLING PARTNERSHIP ExxonMobil became the first energy company to join The Recycling Partnership, a nonprofit organization dedicated to increasing recycling in the United States. ExxonMobil is the first petroleum products company to achieve a Zero Waste to Landfill Silver designation from Underwriters Laboratories (UL), a company that tests, inspects, audits and certifies safety and environmental aspects of products and operations worldwide. UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill designation reflects increasing percentages of waste being diverted away from landfill. UL audited ExxonMobil’s global lubricant operations in 2018 and verified waste diversion rates of more than 90 percent, representing more than 50,000 tons of waste kept out of landfill, through source reduction, reuse and recycling. ExxonMobil and UL plan to repeat audits in future years. Our waste management program establishes innovative techniques and processes across 14 waste categories. For example, our Port Allen lubricant plant in Louisiana developed a process that ensures aerosol cans are safely drained to enable recycling of both the metal and remaining liquid. At multiple plants, we took steps to minimize generation of waste lubricants and worked with suppliers to extend the useful life of pallets for product transportation. SOCIAL Around the world, ExxonMobil aims to be a preferred business partner, neighbor, employer and supplier. ExxonMobil maintains a corporate-wide commitment to safeguarding the health and security of our employees and the public, responsibly managing our social impacts and upholding respect for human rights in our operations. Members of the community near ExxonMobil’s Hides gas conditioning plant in Papua New Guinea. 