Local development and supply chain management Managing our economic impact ExxonMobil’s local content and supply chain management strategies are designed to deliver lasting and shared value to host countries and local communities — as well as our business — by employing systematic processes and global best practices that support local economic growth and development. Local economic growth and development We work to contribute to the economic and social development of the countries in which we operate. We believe local content — the added economic and social value brought to a host nation through the activities of the oil and gas industry — provides shared value to ExxonMobil and to local communities. Our local content approach focuses on three key areas: employing and training a local workforce, supporting local suppliers and improving livelihoods of community members through local community investments. The goal of this multi-tiered approach is to provide sustainable economic benefits and ensure local participation is embedded into our daily processes. To integrate local content into overall project planning and execution, we develop a plan specific to each country or area, taking into account social and economic conditions, the nature of the project and the community’s needs. Part of this effort includes working to align our goals with those of our partners and host country governments. We also actively participate in external organizations and initiatives that improve local content around the world. These organizations include IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Up Close: Local supplier development in Indonesia ExxonMobil is committed to providing local vendors with tools and training opportunities to compete in a global supply chain. For example, in 2016, ExxonMobil conducted three capacity-building training programs for local vendors in Bojonegoro Regency in East Java, Indonesia. We shared detailed information about invoice procedures and the electronic bidding process to assist local contractors by clarifying ExxonMobil requirements and procedures. A total of 185 local contractors attended the training programs. As a result, local vendor capacity to meet internal bidding requirements has improved. In 2016, we provided contracts valued at approximately $6 million to local vendors in Indonesia. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s approach to training and developing local suppliers, see the local supplier development section of our local economic growth and development webpage. Local economic growth and development Local hiring and training Hiring and training a local workforce in our areas of operation is a long-standing priority for ExxonMobil. We provide locally hired individuals with opportunities to develop technical and leadership skills that will benefit them throughout their careers, both with ExxonMobil and with future employers. By doing so, we aim to enhance the long-term capability of local workforces in areas where we operate. Our training programs include the provision of information on ethical business conduct, health and safety, management skills and fundamentals of the oil and gas industry, as well as relevant technical and vocational skills. As illustrated below, in 2016, we continued to make progress in hiring and training host country nationals. For more information, visit the local hiring and training section of our local economic growth and development webpage. Local economic growth and development 2016 local hiring statistics 90% 87% Personnel locally hired Personnel locally hired in supervisory or managerial positions Local supplier development We understand the importance of building and maintaining a qualified and globally competitive supply chain in host countries. ExxonMobil works with a range of stakeholders, including host country governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and local communities to support the development of local vendors. To be a supplier for ExxonMobil, a local vendor must agree to meet our robust safety, technical, environmental and human rights expectations and requirements. When appropriate, ExxonMobil works with entrepreneurs and local businesses to help them understand our requirements and become competitive vendors capable of contributing to our project and the sustainable economic progress of their local community. Local community investments Our local community investments are designed to support social and economic development in the host countries where we operate. As we invest in communities, we pursue programs that are aligned with community and business priorities. In addition to supporting local supplier development, in 2016, ExxonMobil established a microcredit union that helps entrepreneurs in Bojonegoro Regency in East Java, Indonesia, access capital to expand their existing businesses. The microcredit union, which has more than 400 members, also offers management assistance and training to members. As part of this effort to invest in the community, ExxonMobil is also specifically supporting women entrepreneurs because of the unique challenges to economic development they face. ExxonMobil supports a microfinance program in Indonesia that provides technologies and training on key topics that accelerate women’s economic advancement. Women in the program were provided with sustainable lighting and cooking technologies to assist in their daily lives, as well as the opportunity to become resellers of the technology in their communities. In 2016, ExxonMobil held several group training sessions for more than 500 women, covering topics such as microfinance, sales and marketing, and basic accounting. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s strategic community investments, see page 33. Supply chain management The success of our business is influenced by the many valued suppliers who support our operations. In 2016, ExxonMobil made payments to more than 90,000 suppliers of goods and services worldwide. We strive to promote a healthy supply chain that respects human rights and the environment while creating opportunities for historically underrepresented groups. As part of our supply chain management efforts, we have taken steps to foster a commitment to sustainability with our key suppliers. In 2016, we included a sustainability discussion in our supplier relationship management meetings with strategic suppliers representing more than $850 million in annual spending across nine commodity groups. These discussions — which cover human rights, environmental performance, local content and supplier diversity topics — opened the door to potential future collaborations to improve our mutual sustainability performance with these suppliers. For information on how ExxonMobil respects human rights in the supply chain, please see page 32. Promoting supplier diversity ExxonMobil seeks to build long-lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with diverse suppliers to contribute to the economic development of historically underrepresented groups. In the United States, we have cultivated diversity across our supply chain for more than 40 years. In 2011, our spending with minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs) reached $1 billion in the United States. We have been able to maintain that level of spending with diverse suppliers for the past five years. In 2016, we exceeded our target with a total of $1.4 billion in spending with diverse suppliers in the United States. This represents the highest annual spending with diverse suppliers in our program’s history. These suppliers included minority-owned businesses; women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities. Suppliers from these groups have contributed to our total diverse spending in order to ensure a more inclusive supply chain. To help identify diverse suppliers, our supplier diversity database allows businesses from traditionally underrepresented groups in the United States to register an interest in being an ExxonMobil supplier. Supplier diversity database We consider the full reach of our supply chain, not just our direct spending, by tracking the progress of our primary suppliers in the use of diverse suppliers in their businesses. We refer to this as our Tier 2 program. This approach helps promote the sustainability of our supplier diversity program by encouraging our primary suppliers to join in our efforts. Beyond spending with diverse suppliers, we aim to provide long-term growth and development opportunities to diverse suppliers through coaching, training and workshops. In 2016, we continued to increase ExxonMobil leadership engagement in our supplier diversity program. Sara Ortwein, president of XTO Energy, hosted a “CEO Academy,” an executive development session at the ExxonMobil Houston Campus in partnership with the Houston Minority Supplier Development Council. At the session, Ms. Ortwein shared leadership thoughts and the company’s philosophy. We work closely with the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) to help identify and develop relationships ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers1 Millions of dollars  2007  $582  2008  $615  2009  $887  2010  $841  2011  $1,068  2012  $1,001  2013  $1,024  2014  $1,108  2015  $1,064  2016  $1,442  In 2011, our spending with minority- and women-owned business enterprises reached $1 billion in the United States. We have maintained that level of spending with diverse suppliers for the past five years. In 2016, we spent a total of $1.4 billion with diverse suppliers in the United States, an increase of more than 30 percent from 2015. 1Includes direct ExxonMobil spending and that of our suppliers (Tier 2 spending). Total spending includes suppliers classified as minority-owned businesses;  women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and  transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled  veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities. “Many businesses, while achieving success, can struggle with transitioning from operational to strategic leadership. Overcoming this challenge is critical for sustainable growth. I was glad to share my insights from my own leadership experience in order to help diverse business leaders in the Houston area grow and develop themselves as leaders, as well as expand their businesses. Developing a stronger, more diverse supply base not only helps the community, but also ExxonMobil’s business.” Sara Ortwein President of XTO Energy with certified diverse suppliers in the United States. ExxonMobil is consistently recognized as a leader in supplier diversity efforts. WBENC named ExxonMobil among America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises in 2016 for the 10th year in a row. For the first time, we received a Platinum Distinction, which is reserved for companies with leading supplier diversity programs in the top quartile. This national award recognizes corporations with world-class programs and leadership in supplier diversity that are setting higher standards and driving innovation in support of women’s business enterprises. National Minority Supplier Development Council Women’s Business Enterprise National Council Our supplier diversity program continues to expand into the international arena. In 2016, we spent a total of $203 million with women-owned and indigenous-owned businesses outside the United States. Of this, we spent $170 million with indigenous-owned businesses in Canada. Outside of Canada, we spent $33 million with women-owned businesses, representing a 57 percent increase from 2015. We continue to work with WEConnect International to increase the participation of women-owned businesses in our supply chain around the world. Women’s economic development is a global priority for ExxonMobil, and our international supplier diversity program currently focuses on women in a number of countries where we operate. For additional information on our efforts to increase women’s economic development, see page 34. WEConnect International Up Close: Improving environmental performance across the supply chain We encourage our suppliers to take action to improve environmental performance, as outlined in ExxonMobil’s Supplier Expectations. We work in collaboration with key suppliers, where possible, to identify opportunities for continuous improvement in environmental performance that improve efficiencies and create shared value for our business and our suppliers. For example, we have worked with several suppliers in the U.S. Gulf Coast to reduce waste and improve waste handling at our facilities in Beaumont, Texas, and Baton Rouge, Louisiana. By collaborating with Waste Management National Services, Inc., and its affiliates, to apply its comprehensive waste profiling and analysis methods across ExxonMobil’s plants, we enhanced our waste disposal practices and achieved significant cost savings at our Baton Rouge and Beaumont locations. Our partnership with Waste Management has resulted in more than $2 million in cost savings due to increased recycling, improved waste classification and container optimization. In addition, Waste Management personnel have worked more than 100,000 person-hours without incident at the ExxonMobil refineries and achieved world-class safety standards. Through our partnership with a valued supplier to the ExxonMobil Chemical Company, we were also able to reduce waste by reusing and recycling large polypropylene bags capable of holding 500 to 2,000 pounds of product at our Baton Rouge refinery. Rather than being disposed of in landfills, used bags are now collected, cleaned and repaired by a third party before being sold back to the supplier at a lower cost. Not only does this initiative result in an 80 to 90 percent reduction in the number of bags sent to landfill, but it also results in cost savings for our supplier and our own business. We value suppliers who can help us improve our own environmental performance, and we are now looking to expand these waste initiatives to other locations. Up Close: ExxonMobil receives award for corporate social responsibility In 2016, Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited (EEPNL), an ExxonMobil affiliate in Nigeria, was awarded the Best Company in Corporate Social Responsibility in West Africa and recognized as one of the Most Socially Responsible Companies by Social Enterprise Report and Awards (SERAs). SERAs is an annual project that raises awareness about the roles organizations play in the social development of Nigeria and Africa. These awards recognize several local community investment projects in Nigeria, including a back-to-school program that has provided school supplies to more than 32,500 students across the country. Additionally, our investments supported the building of science libraries to promote the development of future STEM professionals at 22 primary schools; e-learning centers at 12 schools to teach children computer skills; 32 solar-powered water pumps to provide access to clean, potable water; and general capacity-building workshops for local entrepreneurs. Overall, we have invested more than $1.3 million into the local community through these projects. Up Close: Partnering to celebrate America Recycles Day ExxonMobil works to promote women-owned businesses and, where possible, include them in our supply chain. For example, CompuCycle, a women-owned company, began working with ExxonMobil in the area of electronic waste removal and recycling in 2015. CompuCycle was the first company in the Houston area to achieve R2 Certification, the recycling industry’s leading certification for electronic waste handling. This certification ensures that the electronic waste removed from ExxonMobil sites is handled in a safe, environmentally responsible and fully transparent manner. In November 2016, ExxonMobil and the Houston campus sustainability team worked with CompuCycle to host an electronics collection event to celebrate America Recycles Day. The event helped educate ExxonMobil employees and local community members about the importance of responsible electronic waste disposal, and resulted in more than 11,000 pounds of electronic waste being disposed of safely and responsibly. “To celebrate America Recycles Day, the Houston campus sustainability team wanted to educate ExxonMobil employees and the local community about the benefits of recycling. CompuCycle helped us accomplish this, while also giving people an easy way to responsibly dispose of their electronic waste from home.” David Willis ExxonMobil Houston campus sustainability team recycling lead 6 Corporate governance Governance practices Good corporate governance creates a business environment conducive to long-term investments and sustainable economic growth. ExxonMobil implements a variety of corporate governance practices, underpinned by a board comprised predominantly of independent directors. Our Standards of Business Conduct, adopted and administered by the board of directors, cover a range of topics including labor, diversity, the environment and anti-corruption. Ethics and integrity We observe the highest standards of integrity and ethics to develop, approve and implement projects around the world. ExxonMobil requires that employees, officers, directors and those working on our behalf comply with all applicable laws, including the U.S. anti-corruption, anti-trust, anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls laws, as well as laws in other countries applicable to our business. In 2016, nearly 47,000 employees and contractors participated in anti-corruption training and business practice reviews. For additional information on how ExxonMobil works to uphold the highest ethical standards, see the Standards of Business Conduct. Standards of Business Conduct Transparency ExxonMobil supports multi-stakeholder engagement for the purpose of increasing transparency of government revenues from the extractive industries. Our long-standing efforts to promote revenue transparency have helped reduce corruption, improve government accountability and promote greater economic stability worldwide. In order to be successful, a transparency initiative should: • Apply to all companies; • Protect commercially sensitive and proprietary information; and • Not violate host government laws or contractual obligations. Up Close: The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global program dedicated to strengthening governance by improving transparency and accountability in the extractives sector. Companies and governments participating in EITI separately report payments and revenues, respectively, allowing EITI to reconcile any differences between the totals and publish validated total government revenues. ExxonMobil has held an active role at both the secretariat and country levels since EITI’s inception more than a decade ago. An ExxonMobil representative has served on the EITI board as either a primary or alternate member since it began. ExxonMobil supports the EITI application, validation and implementation processes wherever we operate. We are also currently working with governments in several countries, including Guyana and Mexico, which are considering joining EITI. There are currently about 51 countries that are compliant members or have been accepted as candidates to begin reporting under the EITI Standard. Board leadership ExxonMobil’s affairs are managed independently under the direction of our board of directors. All directors are required to stand for election each year at our annual meeting of shareholders. At year-end 2016, 11 of 13 directors, including the presiding director and all members of the audit, compensation, public issues and contributions, and board affairs committees, were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange guidelines. In 2016, the board met 12 times. Independent leadership is also supported by the presiding director, a non-employee director who, in consultation with the chairman, reviews board agendas and materials to be distributed to directors before board meetings, among other responsibilities. For more information about our board structure, visit the corporate governance section of our website. Corporate governance Board PICC trip to Baytown, Texas Each year, members of the public issues and contributions committee (PICC) visit a company site to gain a deeper understanding of ExxonMobil operations and to view first-hand the execution of ExxonMobil standards, principles and capabilities. In 2016, the PICC visited our Baytown and Mont Belvieu facilities in Texas to view progress on the North American Growth Project. The project is part of a larger Gulf Coast investment program, called Growing the Gulf, that will create or support 45,000 construction and full-time jobs. For more information, see the case study on page 36. Founded in 1919, the Baytown refinery and petrochemical complex is located about 25 miles outside of Houston, along the Houston Ship Channel. The refinery consists of manufacturing sites, chemical plants and a global technology center. These sites employ more than 7,000 workers, and the refinery has a potential capacity of 561,000 barrels of crude oil per day. Within the Baytown area, our Mont Belvieu plant manufactures the film that bundles water bottles and heavy-duty sacks used to store food, and the Baytown olefins plant is one of the largest ethylene-producing plants in the world. The trip included a reception and dinner at Lee College, a community college that is part of ExxonMobil’s Petrochemical Initiative, to engage with local community and civic leaders, including the Baytown mayor and the chair of the Houston Port Authority. Additionally, the PICC attended a lunch with employees from Mont Belvieu and the Baytown olefins plants. ExxonMobil directors (bottom row) attending the PICC trip to Baytown and Mont Belvieu, along with ExxonMobil executives. From left: (Top row) Woody Paul, Paul Fritsch, Mike Dolan, Jeff Woodbury, Paul Guilfoyle, Cindy Shulman, (Bottom row) Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, Henrietta Fore, Kenneth Frazier, Steven Reinemund, Angela Braly and Douglas Oberhelman. Good corporate governance is an essential element of corporate social responsibility. Corporate citizenship topics typically fall under the purview of the public issues and contributions committee, the board affairs committee and the compensation committee, and are routinely reviewed at board meetings. While risk oversight is the responsibility of the entire board, committees help the board focus on risk aspects relevant to each committee. For example, the PICC is charged with reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s policies, programs and practices with respect to the environment, among other duties. The committee hears reports from operating units on environmental activities and also visits operating sites to observe and comment on current practices. The entire board receives briefings by internal experts on environmental stewardship and climate change. Board selection process We value the diversity of the board in regard to gender, race, geography, experience and fields of expertise. We believe maintaining this diversity is critical to our success in a globalized market. In 2016, 45 percent of the board’s independent directors were female, African-American or from outside the United States. Four of the seven most recent additions to the board demonstrate this cultural and intellectual diversity. Below we introduce our most recent board member additions: Angela Braly and Susan Avery. Angela Braly Susan Avery Angela Braly was elected to the ExxonMobil board in 2016. Ms. Braly served as president and chief executive officer of WellPoint from 2007 to 2012 and chairman from 2010 to 2012. Her current company directorships include Brookfield Asset Management, Lowe’s and Procter & Gamble. Susan Avery was elected to the board in early 2017. Dr. Avery, an atmospheric scientist, is the former president and director of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. In 2013, she was named to the Scientific Advisory Board of the United Nations Secretary-General, which provides advice on science, technology and innovation for sustainable development. With our most recent board additions, the ExxonMobil board stands at 13 directors, 12 of whom are non-employee directors. We describe current director qualifications in our proxy statement, and the guidelines the board employs in selecting board candidates are published on our company website and regularly reviewed. 2017 proxy statement Board committees overview Executive compensation and strategic advantage ExxonMobil’s business model is reflective of a capital-intensive industry, requiring long investment lead times and a significant focus on risk management. Our executive compensation program supports this business model and focuses our executives on continuous improvement, effective risk management, operations integrity and sustainable growth in shareholder value. Our compensation committee carefully considers the feedback on executive compensation we receive from our shareholders, some of whom have held ExxonMobil stock for more than a decade. During the 2016 proxy season, the advisory vote on executive compensation received 89 percent of votes “For” the company’s program. For more details on our executive compensation program, see our board leadership webpage. Board leadership Shareholder relations We value the dialogue we have with our shareholders on a variety of governance, social and environmental topics throughout the year. Our direct engagement with shareholders provides an effective forum to address issues, share relevant information and viewpoints, and align on the facts. In 2016, we held 51 shareholder engagements on environmental, social and governance issues with institutional investors, pension funds, and labor, religious and nongovernmental organizations, representing almost 40 percent of outstanding stock held by institutional investors. These engagements have frequently allowed us to reach common ground with our shareholders, in some cases avoiding the need for more formal shareholder proposals at the annual shareholders meeting. The board has established procedures for shareholders and 2016 proxy vote summary Percent vote for1 Item 2016 1. Election of directors (average)2 2. Ratification of independent auditors2 3. Advisory vote on executive compensation2 89.3 4. Independent chairman 5. Climate expert on board 6. Hire an investment bank3 7. Proxy access bylaw4 8. Report on compensation for women 9. Report on lobbying 10. Increase capital distributions 11. Policy to limit global warming to 2°C3 12. Report on impacts of climate change policies3 38.1 13. Report reserve replacements in BTUs3 14. Report on hydraulic fracturing 1Abstentions count for quorum purposes, but not toward voting on these proposals. 2Proposals submitted by the board. 3First-year proposal. 4ExxonMobil adopted a proxy access bylaw on November 1, 2016. other interested parties to communicate with them, which further underpins the importance that the board places on shareholder input. At the corporation’s 2016 annual meeting, shareholders owning approximately 3.5 billion — or more than 85 percent — of outstanding shares were represented. In 2016, shareholders voted on directors, independent auditors, executive compensation and 11 shareholder proposals. The summary table above shows the 2016 proxy vote results. Political advocacy Topic ExxonMobil’s position and contributions Because public policy decisions made at all levels of government can have significant effects on our current and future operations, ExxonMobil communicates its positions to the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and governments around the world. In the United States, lobbying activities include direct communication with members of Congress, state legislators, administration and regulatory officials, as well as support for trade associations and other groups that engage in lobbying activities. We fully comply with registration and reporting regulations related to our lobbying activities. In 2016, we reported total federal lobbying expenses of about $12 million in our disclosure reports to Congress. We make political contributions to candidate committees and political organizations as permitted by applicable laws. We refrain from making political contributions in any countries other than the United States and Canada. In 2016, we contributed almost $222,000 to state candidates and caucuses in 12 U.S. states.* ExxonMobil’s political action committee (PAC) disbursed more than $957,000 to federal and state candidates.* Corporate political contributions are subject to an internal review process that requires approval from the chairman. The political contributions of the corporation, as well as the contributions from the company-sponsored PAC, are reviewed by the board of directors annually and are routinely verified during internal audits of the corporation’s public affairs activities. As shown on the right, ExxonMobil engaged last year on a variety of issues in support of responsible economic, energy and environmental policies. For additional information on political contributions, the issues ExxonMobil engaged on in 2016 and our associated positions, visit our political advocacy and contributions webpage. Political advocacy and contributions ExxonMobil Energy Factor Climate change ExxonMobil supports the Paris Agreement, which addresses climate change as a global challenge for all nations. Education ExxonMobil supports science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education initiatives as part of a path to global competitiveness and advocates for efforts to raise academic standards. Energy infrastructure ExxonMobil supports the continued development of necessary energy infrastructure. Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling ExxonMobil supports the global use of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing. International trade ExxonMobil supports lifting restrictions on exports of energy products because expanding markets can benefit all consumers. Regulatory improvement ExxonMobil supports common-sense reforms to improve transparency, accountability and objectivity of regulations that would enable effective enforcement, improve public safety and minimize economic costs. Renewable fuel standard ExxonMobil opposes fuel mandates such as the renewable fuel standard because they distort free markets, do not provide claimed environmental benefits and increase costs to consumers. Tax policy ExxonMobil supports stable tax policies that enable the energy industry to remain competitive in the global marketplace. Toxic Substances Control Act ExxonMobil supported the Toxic Substances Control Act reauthorization and modernization to strengthen safety standards. Up Close: Engaging on TSCA modernization The primary law overseeing the safety of chemical products in the United States — the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) — provides the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency authority to review and regulate chemicals in commerce. TSCA was designed to ensure that products are safe for intended use. In 2016, ExxonMobil and the American Chemistry Council strongly advocated in support of the bipartisan legislation to enhance the TSCA process and provide for a uniform national system of chemical regulation. In June 2016, the president signed into law the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act, which reauthorized and modernized TSCA to strengthen safety standards. *Totals may not reflect some candidates’ failure to deposit, or returned contributions not yet posted. 