Environmental Performance*  Marine vessel spills (owned and long-term leased), number of hydrocarbon spills > 1 barrel  0  0  0  0  •  21  Other spills (not from marine vessels), number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel  242  210  484  355  •  21  Hydrocarbons spilled (oil spilled), thousands of barrels  17.4  7.7  17.8  8.7  •  21  Other spills, thousands of barrels  0.5  40.4  2.0  1.6  •  N/A  Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons  1.4  1.3  1.3  1.2  •  N/A  Sulfur dioxide (SO) emitted, millions of metric tons 2  0.16  0.14  0.13  0.13  •  22  Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons  0.13  0.12  0.14  0.14  •  22  Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons  0.22  0.22  0.23  0.20  •  22  Upstream  0.068  0.073  0.076  0.073  •  22  Refining  0.011  0.012  0.011  0.010  •  22  Chemical  0.036  0.036  0.032  0.036  •  22  1Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons  0.8  1.3  1.9  12.0  •  22  Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars  5.1  4.5  4.9  5.5  23  Freshwater consumption, millions of barrels  2,186  2,141  2,340  2,083  •  20  2Number of hectares of protected wildlife habitat  140  2,600  2,700  3,000  •  18  Managing Climate Change Risks*  3Greenhouse gas emissions, absolute (net equity, CO-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons 2 123.3  125.7  128.8  125.0  •  30  3Greenhouse gas emissions, normalized (net equity, CO-equivalent emissions), metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production 2  Upstream  20.1  20.5  20.6  22.3  •  30  Downstream  21.0  20.8  20.3  19.5  •  30  Chemical  60.7  57.9  57.2  56.2  •  30  Energy intensity, normalized versus Global Energy Management System (GEMS) base year (2000) – refining  91.4  90.8  89.1  88.9  •  30  Energy intensity, normalized versus GEMS base year (2002) – chemical steam cracking  88.6  87.5  87.3  88.2  •  30  2Cogeneration capacity in which we have interest, gigawatts  4.9  4.9  5.0  5.2  •  31  Hydrocarbon flaring (worldwide activities), millions of metric tons  4.4  3.6  4.1  3.6  •  30  Notes on performance table: 1The value for hazardous waste from ongoing operations includes produced water classified as hazardous waste by one local authority, which is approximately 95 percent of the reported figure. Excluding this produced water, the trend for hazardous waste generation from ongoing operations is favorable. 2Cumulative figure 3The above net equity greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions metric was introduced in 2011 as a replacement for the direct equity GHG metric. Information has been restated back to 2008 according to the new metric. The net equity GHG metric includes direct and imported GHG emissions and excludes emissions from exports, including Hong Kong Power. ExxonMobil reports GHG emissions on a net equity basis for all our business operations, reflecting our percent ownership in an asset. *Some uncertainty exists in environmental and safety data, depending on measurement methods. Data represent best available information at the time of publication. Environmental, health and safety data are reported for our affiliates and those operations under direct ExxonMobil management and operational control. Performance Data 2009  2010  2011  2012  Interpretation  Page #  Safety, Health and the Workplace*  Fatalities – employees  4  0  0  1  •  37  Fatalities – contractors  4  3  9  4  •  37  4Fatal accident rate – total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)  0.017  0.006  0.017  0.010  •  N/A  5Lost-time incident rate – employees (per 200,000 work hours)  0.043  0.048  0.062  0.037  •  37  5Lost-time incident rate – contractors (per 200,000 work hours)  0.040  0.031  0.086  0.049  •  37  5Lost-time incident rate – total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)  0.041  0.038  0.077  0.045  •  N/A  5Total recordable incident rate – employees (per 200,000 work hours)  0.32  0.25  0.30  0.24  •  37  5Total recordable incident rate – contractors (per 200,000 work hours)  0.39  0.34  0.41  0.37  •  37  5Total recordable incident rate – total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)  0.36  0.30  0.37  0.33  •  N/A  6,7 Number of regular employees at year end, thousands  81  84  82  77  42  7Percent of workforce – non-U.S.  63  60  61  59  42  7Percent women – global workforce  26  26  26  28  •  41  Percent management and professional new hires – women  38  40  44  39  •  41  Percent management and professional new hires – non-U.S.  63  70  79  68  41  Number of employee participants in corporate and technical training, thousands  52  61  65  76  42  Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars  71  77  80  88  42  Corporate Governance  Corporate political contributions – U.S. state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars  0.49  1.10  0.51  1.03  48  Percent of shares represented at Corporation’s Annual Meeting  82.9  80.7  81.9  83.0  46  Economic Development and Supply Chain Management  U.S. spending with minority- and women-owned businesses, millions of dollars  863  812  869  788  •  54  8Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries  8  7  7  7  55  Human Rights and Managing Community Impacts  9Community investments, millions of dollars  235.0  237.1  278.4  255.6  •  64  United States  143.0  154.8  161.3  156.5  64  Rest of world  92.0  82.3  117.1  99.1  64  Number of countries in which affiliates received dedicated human rights awareness training  8  1  5  3  •  61  Percent of private security contracts with human rights language  60  75  79  99  •  61  Notes on performance table: 4For the past several years, including 2009–2012, ExxonMobil’s fatal accident rate has been equivalent to our fatal incident rate. 5Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information at the time of publication. 6Reduction from 2011 primarily due to divestment and restructuring activity in the Downstream business. 7Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil and are covered by ExxonMobil’s benefit plans and programs. Employees at our company-operated retail stores are not included. 8In countries where ExxonMobil has an Upstream business presence 9Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and foundation donations, and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. *Some uncertainty exists in environmental and safety data, depending on measurement methods. Data represent best available information at the time of publication. Environmental, health and safety data are reported for our affiliates and those operations under direct ExxonMobil management and operational control. Reporting Overview  IPIECA /API  GRI  Page Reported  Safety, Health and the Workplace  Personnel safety and process safety  HS1, HS3  2.10, 4.8, LA7, DMA-LA  37–38  Emergency preparedness  HS5  4.11  38–39  Employee health and workplace security  HS2  4.11, LA8  39–40  Product stewardship and safety  HS4  4.11, 4.12, DMA-PR, PR1, PR3  40  Employment policies and practices  SE15, SE16, SE17  DMA-LA, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA10, LA11, LA12, LA13, LA14, EC3  40–42  Corporate Governance  Board of directors  4.1– 4.5, 4.7, 4.9, 4.10, LA13  45–46  Shareholder relations  4.2, 4.4, 4.16, 4.17  46–47  Ethics  SE11, SE12, SE18  4.8. 4.11, 4.12, SO2, SO3, SO4, LA10  47–48  Political advocacy and contributions  SE14  4.17, SO5, SO6  48  Economic Development and Supply Ch ain Management  Economic growth and national content  SE1, SE5  4.11, 4.12, DMA-SO  51  Workforce development  SE6, SE17  EC7, EC9, LA10, LA11  51–53  Supplier development  SE7  EC6, EC9  53  Supply chain management  SE9, SE12  EC6, HR1, HR2, HR5, HR6, HR7  53–55  Transparency  SE13  4.12, 4.13  55  Case Study: Developing Long-Term Capacity in Sakhalin  SE1, SE4, SE5, SE6, SE7  4.17, EC6, EC7, EC8, EC9, SO1  56–57  Human Rights and Managing Communi ty Impacts  Identifying socioeconomic aspects  SE1  4.8, 4.12, DMA-SO, SO1, SO9, SO10  60  Respecting human rights  SE8, SE9  4.8, 4.12, 4.13, DMA-HR, HR2, HR3, HR6, HR7  60–61  Addressing security concerns  SE10  4.8, 4.12, 4.13, HR2, HR8  61  Consultation with stakeholders  SE1, SE2, SE3, SE5  4.8, 4.12, 4.16, 4.17, HR9, HR11, SO1, SO9, SO10  61–63  Strategic community investments  SE4, SE5  4.13, EC1, EC8, EC9, LA8  64–65  ExxonMobil fully reports on all GRI indicators listed above, unless they are in italics, in which case they are only partially addressed. Where indicators require multiple pieces of information located in different sections of the report, we list the indicator in every section where the related information appears. DMA refers to the Disclosure on Management Approach for the GRI portion of this index. The IPIECA indicators in this index include, at a minimum, all common reporting elements. Environmental Resources Management, Inc. (ERM) reviewed ExxonMobil’s 2012 Corporate Citizenship Report against the IPIECA/OGP/API Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010) and the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. ERM found that the report contents address the indicators shown in this index. ExxonMobil seeks to conduct business in a manner that is compatible with the environmental, social and economic needs of the communities in which we operate. At the same time, we focus on protecting the safety, security and health of our employees; those involved with our operations; our customers; and the public. Across ExxonMobil’s global operations, we rigorously apply management systems to enable high operational performance. We use these management systems to identify, track and report the metrics that demonstrate and guide our performance. These systems enable us to comply with regulations and, where laws and regulations do not exist, they provide a framework for maintaining our high standards. From the drilling of a well to the delivery of petroleum products, these expectations provide the foundation for managing risk and achieving excellence in performance in each of our business lines. Below is a partial list of our key processes and management systems, in alphabetical order. • Best Practices in External Affairs (BPEA) — Our strategic planning and management tool for practicing excellence in all community relationships. The BPEA process helps us identify specific needs, expectations and interests of host communities and aligns these needs with our community investment efforts. • Controls Integrity Management System — A system for assessing and measuring financial control risks, identifying procedures for mitigating concerns, monitoring compliance with standards and reporting results to the appropriate operations and management groups within ExxonMobil. • Environmental Aspects Guide — Provides guidance for identifying, evaluating and assessing the potential risks for various environmental issues. • Environmental Business Plans — A corporate-wide framework for addressing environmental requirements and expectations as part of the annual business cycle. • Environmental Data Management System (EDMS) — A system to collect, collate and consolidate site-level data at the corporate level to help manage our environmental performance indicators globally. EDMS is being integrated with existing site-based emissions monitoring and measurement systems to allow us to collect up-to-date, site-specific information. • Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment — A formal analysis to identify key risks and develop strategies to manage these risks through the asset life cycle. • ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS) — Provides a framework to guide project development and execution and facilitates the consideration of environmental concerns and regulatory requirements. • Global Energy Management System — A management system that rigorously identifies and addresses operational energy efficiency opportunities for the Downstream and Chemical business lines. • IMPACT — A single corporate-wide database for capturing and analyzing safety and environmental data on incidents, near-misses, observations, assessment findings, lessons learned and follow-up activities. • National Content Guidelines, Strategies and Best Practices — Contains the key elements of a national content strategy and plan, models and tools for the successful development of national content, and roles and responsibilities at the corporate, country and project levels. • Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) — Establishes common expectations for addressing safety, security, health, environmental and social risks. OIMS provides a systematic, structured and disciplined approach to measure progress and track accountability across business lines, facilities and projects. • Product Stewardship Information Management System — Applies common global processes and a global computer system to capture and communicate information on the safe handling, transport, use and disposal of our products. • Production Operations Energy Management System — Incorporates a systematic approach to energy management to improve energy efficiency in Upstream operations. • Project Environmental Standards — Establish environmental requirements for new projects, which provide an additional layer of environmental and social protection to the applicable regulatory requirements. • Standards of Business Conduct — Define the global ethical conduct of the Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries. These Standards uphold values related to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. • Technology Management System — Processes for technology investments that follow a gated management system from early technical innovation to final deployment. • Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard — Provides a combination of best management practices and minimum expectations for managing the socioeconomic considerations throughout the Upstream life cycle. Implementing OIMS OIMS provides a systematic, structured approach operations. Each Element comprises a number ExxonMobil’s disciplined management system, to measure progress and track accountability of Expectations, 65 in all, that provide greater the Operations Integrity Management System across business lines, facilities and projects. At detail for each Element. (OIMS), establishes a common framework for the global corporate level, the OIMS Framework addressing safety, security, health, environmental is built around 11 Elements, each covering a key OIMS Element 1, Management Leadership, and social risks. Developed in the early 1990s, aspect of risk across the breadth of ExxonMobil’s Commitment and Accountability, outlines the Operations Driver 2 4 Evaluation Risk Assessment Facilities Design Information/ and Management and Construction Documentation 567 Management Leadership, Operations Integrity Commitment and Personnel Operations Management Assessment and Accountability and Training and Maintenance of Change Improvement 8 9 10 Community Incident Awareness and Third-Party Investigation Emergency Services and Analysis Preparedness expectations of managers as they lead their organization through effective use of OIMS. OIMS Element 11, Operations Integrity Assessment and Improvement, describes the requirements associated with how each operating unit evaluates the extent to which it is meeting the Expectations of OIMS. These two Elements are often referred to as the “book-ends” of OIMS, with Element 1 being the “driver” and Element 11 providing the feedback mechanism to ensure continuous improvement. Elements 2 through 10 address the more operational, day-to-day aspects of OIMS, like Risk Assessment and Management, Facilities Design and Construction, Personnel and Training, and Incident Investigation and Analysis, among others. In order for the 11 Elements and 65  Expectations of the OIMS Framework to be consistent and relevant across ExxonMobil’s diverse operational portfolio, each unit across the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses has established detailed OIMS Guidelines. These Guidelines describe how each business unit addresses the 65 Corporate Expectations relevant to that business unit’s operations. To address the Guidelines described above, and to satisfy the Expectations outlined by the 11 Elements of the OIMS Framework, every site or operating entity has in place a number of discrete, comprehensive Management Systems that provide step.by-step details of OIMS execution at the site level. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE An exploration vessel performing deepwater seismic activities in the Kara Sea, off the coast of Russia. With 90 years of operations, ExxonMobil has the industry’s longest history of Arctic experience. Highlighting a Decade of Performance Our priorities since 2002 Reduce spills to land and water with a focus on mechanical integrity and human factors Reduced spills 37 percent since 2002 More fully understand and mitigate biodiversity impacts Assessed 108 major operating sites against International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and World Protected Areas databases, starting in 2011 Develop Project Environmental Standards informed by industry good practice and other international benchmarks Developed Environmental Standards for Upstream projects and manufacturing activities on key environmental topics such as air emissions, water use and discharges, and waste management Increase understanding of water use and stress across our operational sites Assessed all 108 major operating sites using the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) global water tool Develop an internal function to remediate inactive properties and formerly owned sites Established ExxonMobil Environmental Services in 2007, which has stewarded the successful remediation and restoration of 860 sites Our continued responsibilities Further improve our spill performance by learning from and preventing spills with high severity potential Understand and manage water use and risks by identifying efficiency and reuse options in stressed areas Demonstrate the safety and efficacy of hydraulic fracturing operations and build community trust around the development of unconventional natural gas Proactively remediate and restore inactive properties and formerly owned sites for beneficial subsequent use Develop next-generation technologies that enable continued development in Arctic regions while protecting the surrounding environment Develop an approach to identifying and conserving ecosystem services around ExxonMobil sites Ongoing Completed ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Reliable and affordable energy is essential to human progress. At the same time — like all industrial processes — energy development involves risk. ExxonMobil considers risk at every stage of development, and we continuously work to reduce environmental impacts. Rigorous standards and good practices that consider the needs of the communities where we operate guide our efforts. Our commitment to operating in an environmentally responsible manner is anchored in our Environment Policy, which fosters appropriate operating practices and training, and requires our facilities to be designed, operated and managed with the goal of preventing environmental incidents. Our Protect Tomorrow. Today. initiative guides our management processes to continuously improve environmental performance. Our business operations continue to drive enhancements in environmental performance by incorporating Environmental Business Planning into the annual business planning cycle. Assessing our Surroundings Our business spans the globe, and no two operating environments are the same. Our approach to environmental protection begins with a thorough understanding of local environmental and socioeconomic surroundings. This understanding is critical to superior performance. Conducting impact assessments For new Upstream projects, we conduct risk-based Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessments (ESHIAs) to identify community concerns, environmental aspects and social and economic conditions. We then apply an “avoid, reduce, remedy” strategy to address potential risks. Our goal is to man.age risks to the lowest level practical. This hierarchical mitigation approach ensures that we first consider modifying aspects of a project’s design or execution plan to avoid an impact. The ExxonMobil Environmental Aspects Guide provides guidance for identifying, evaluating and assessing potential risks for various environmental aspects (defined as “elements”). We then analyze potential risks for avoidance and reduction options, and consider practical alternatives early in the project design phase. When we applied this iterative approach during the drilling program associated with our Point Thomson project in Alaska, it led to the identification of a new environmental aspect: several polar bear dens were found near a project ice road. To avoid these dens, we re-routed the road and maintained active monitoring. Local environmental regulatory agencies have recognized this initiative. Protecting biodiversity ExxonMobil uses a systematic approach for protecting biodiversity and ecosystem services that recognizes factors such as the rarity of individual species, their habitats, their vulnerability and their cultural value. Ecosystem services are defined as the direct and indirect benefits people obtain from the environment, such as food, water and recreation. Safeguarding the ability of the environment to provide important services is a key risk management focus for ExxonMobil. We identify biodiversity protection objectives and consider ecosystem services through the ESHIA process, the preparation of Environmental Management Plans and our Environmental Business Planning efforts. We are continuously looking for new tools and analytical methods to better understand local biodiversity conditions and ecosystem services. For example, ExxonMobil researchers developed a new framework to characterize marine environmental sensitivities by prioritizing ecosystem services depending upon habitat types and ecosystem components in the region of interest. During 2012, we piloted this framework in an analysis of the Gulf of Mexico. This pilot identified high-value ecosystem services and helped select appropriate monitoring indicators for ecosystem health. Further development work will involve seeking stakeholder input on the framework and sharing the good practice more widely. In 2012, we screened our major sites against databases of the IUCN and World Protected Areas. We confirmed that less than 20 percent of our 108 major Upstream, Downstream and Chemical facilities are within five kilometers of designated environmentally protected areas. As part of the Upstream ESHIA process for projects, we develop plans if elevated biodiversity or species risks exist. Identification and Assessment of Environmental Aspects is an Iterative Process When undertaking major projects, we start by identifying aspects — such as roads, pipelines or equipment — that have the potential to interact with the environment, and then we develop strategies to avoid or manage those aspects. We also assess existing environmental management practices to safeguard local biodiversity. For an expansion project at our Longford gas processing and crude oil stabilization plant in Australia, we conducted an ecological assessment that identified biologically diverse woodland areas in the immediate vicinity. To avoid disturbances from construction, we relocated some of the roadways in our expansion plans. In 2012, we continued to roll out the Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project’s biodiversity offset program. Based on recommendations from Conservation International, and following extensive engagement with local organizations and communities, the biodiversity offset program was designed both to strengthen existing protected areas and establish new protected areas. In addition to on-the-ground conservation, the program includes a capacity-building component to further the conservation platform in Papua New Guinea, work at the regional level to support development of a regional protected area system, and work at the national level to support the implementation of Papua New Guinea’s commitments under the Convention of Biological Diversity. By the end of 2012, we actively managed more than 3,000 hectares of land for the benefit of wildlife at 21 ExxonMobil sites, compared with 140 hectares in 2009. A noteworthy accomplishment in 2012 was that the Kearl site, located in Canada, received Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) Wildlife at Work certification. ExxonMobil plans to continue engaging with WHC in the development of educational and outreach opportunities on company sites through a Corporate Lands for Learning (CLL) program. Currently, ExxonMobil has five programs achieving CLL status for promotion of environmental awareness, biodiversity and science initiatives. In 2012, we held the first ExxonMobil Wildlife Workshop with individuals representing ExxonMobil projects, operations and contractors from across the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Singapore. The workshop covered the effects of oil on wildlife, incident-response good practices, invasive-species awareness and lessons learned. A second Wildlife Workshop is planned for 2013 to continue strengthening ExxonMobil’s capacity in wildlife emergency response. 3,000 hectares of land managed for the benefit of wildlife We seek to partner with non-governmental organizations to implement biodiversity- and conservation-related programs with measurable, scientific results. In 2012, ExxonMobil contributed nearly $1.3 million to organizations dedicated to biodiversity protection and land conservation. We also support organizations focused on improving the quality and quantity of species data, such as the United Nations World Conservation Monitoring Centre and NatureServe, to enhance industries’ environmental protection and planning. Designing our Facilities Wherever we operate, we follow local environmental regulations. In places where regulations are not fully developed or implemented, we operate to standards that are protective of the environment. Our ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS) provides a framework to guide project development and execution. EMCAPS facilitates the consideration of environmental concerns and regulatory requirements early in the project design and implementation process. We continue to develop Project Environmental Standards for each of our business lines. The standards focus on the most common types of Stakeholder Engagement: Biodiversity Protection For more than 15 years, ExxonMobil has supported the Bioko Island Biodiversity Protection Program (BBPP) in Equatorial Guinea, in association with Drexel University in the United States and the National University of Equatorial Guinea (UNGE). The cultural exchange between U.S. and Equatorial Guinea professors and students extends far beyond the scientific scope of this biodiversity protection program. “ExxonMobil recognized early on that the BBPP was effective in both saving the biodiversity of Bioko Island and in building capacity in rural communities and at UNGE.” — Dr. Gail Hearn, Drexel University Bioko Island, located 20 miles off the Gulf of Guinea coast in West Africa, is considered biologically diverse, with critical habitat for seven species of endangered monkeys and four species of nesting sea turtles. These rare species are frequent targets of poachers and commercial hunters, but with ExxonMobil’s support, the BBPP deploys wildlife patrols to monitor the legally protected areas of the island through a monthly census. The ExxonMobil Foundation also provided funding to open the Moka Wildlife Center, the country’s first biological field station. The center hosts training sessions and wildlife research programs. BBPP’s efforts have also contributed to passing legislation that promotes conservation and bans the hunting of endangered primates throughout Equatorial Guinea. In 2013, BBPP plans to implement educational outreach programs for local school children. environmental and socioeconomic impacts associated with the oil and gas industry. As a part of the process, we studied existing and proposed regulations of a number of countries, as well as the environmental guidelines established by several international organizations, including the World Health Organization. These standards, which apply to new projects, can constitute an additional layer of protection beyond host country regulatory requirements and help ensure that we operate in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. To date, we have developed standards in the areas of air emissions; flaring and venting reduction; energy efficiency; marine geophysical operations; socioeconomic management (see page 60); water management; drill cuttings discharge; land use and waste management. We assess our facilities every three to five years using our Environmental Aspect Assessment to verify that our standards are being implemented and to facilitate continuous improvement. Arctic resources The Arctic represents the world’s largest remaining region of undiscovered conventional oil and gas resources. Developing these resources presents technological, environmental and social challenges. ExxonMobil has a strong portfolio of assets and opportunities in a range of Arctic environments, some of which we have held for 30 years or more. The company’s efforts in the Arctic begin by gaining a scientific understanding of the environment. For example, ExxonMobil conducted extensive environmental baseline studies in the Canadian Beaufort Sea to gather credible data to support our recent offshore seismic program. We are also participating in environmental habitat studies offshore Greenland that include whale migration, fisheries resource assessment, migratory bird habitats and understanding the impact of resource development on indigenous communities. Detailed environmental and fishery studies conducted in the Kara Sea, north of Siberia, during the summer of 2012 included observations of marine mammals. In 2013, we also plan to conduct field monitoring for detecting sensitive coastal areas in the region. Design and operational plans in Arctic locales, similar to everywhere we operate, are based on the goal of reducing adverse environmental impacts. On Sakhalin Island, our extended reach drilling technologies have allowed for field development from land by drilling 40,000 feet horizontally under the sea. Extended reach drilling technology reduces underwater noise and limits our offshore presence. We also use special earthquake- and frost-resistant pipelines in some northern areas. ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System GATE 1: DEvElOP GATE 2: PARTNER GATE 3: APPly GATE 4: DEPlOy STAGE DElIvERABlE ExxonMobil integrates and stewards environmental and social considerations into project planning through ExxonMobil’s Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS). This system consists of several gates, each of which must be completed prior to moving to the next stage of project development or execution. Operating with Integrity ExxonMobil reduces potentially adverse environmental impacts by operating our facilities with integrity. Employees are expected to prevent environmental incidents and respond quickly and effectively when incidents do occur. Freshwater management In the communities where we operate, we evaluate how our activities impact water quality, availability and demand. We actively manage our water consumption and seek opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle water in our operations. The oil and gas industry requires water, including freshwater, in its operations. We use water in the extraction, processing and refining of hydrocarbons and for cooling at our facilities. Globally, agriculture is the major user of water at about 70 percent of total water withdrawals. Industry use (including the oil and gas industry) is less than 5 percent of total withdrawals, even in the highest income countries. In 2012, the net freshwater consumption at our operations was 2,083 million barrels, representing an 11 percent decrease from 2011. We use a wide range of approaches to reduce water use and preserve water quality, including on-site recycling and water reuse, sourcing treated wastewater for use as process water, employing processes to decrease water needs and appropriately treating wastewater prior to its discharge. In Nigeria and Germany, rain is harvested for use in preparing drilling fluids. During heavy rain days, up to 500 barrels can be collected, and in most cases, the rainwater accumulated exceeds the water amount needed at the rig site. At the Cold Lake operations of our Canadian affiliate, Imperial Oil, we pioneered produced water-recycling techniques in the oil sands industry in Western Canada for steam generation. As a result of this long-term investment, coupled with research and the use of alternative saline groundwater sources, we have been able to reduce our freshwater-use intensity by 90 percent since 1985. We have additional conservation initiatives under way targeted to continue to further reduce freshwater use by 2014. To reduce the potential impact on other water users, we compare our water usage requirements with availability during various seasons to identify sensitivities, associated risks and opportunities. We continue to use the WBCSD global water tool to identify regions where we operate that may have water scarcity concerns. Information about water stress and scarcity in the vicinity of our operations serves as an important part of risk management. Of our 108 major operating sites, we identified about 25 percent operating in regions that may have some degree of water stress or scarcity. These areas are located in 15 countries. ExxonMobil performs this screening exercise each year after the WBCSD updates the global water tool with new sensitivity data. As a result, the company has a greater focus on water supply resources in Environmental Business Plans for each operation site, which take a five-year look ahead. Regional Water Availability1 Major sites located in areas with some degree of water stress or scarcity 25% Major sites located in areas with no degree of water stress or scarcity 75% 1Results based on an assessment of our 108 major operating sites using the WBCSD’s global water tool. Wastewater management Oil and gas production and refining operations produce wastewater that requires treatment before its discharge or disposal. Treatment methodologies range from the removal of suspended hydrocarbons and solids from produced water brought to the surface during oil and gas production to multi.stage biological treatment systems for refinery wastewater. Regardless of the treatment type, we closely monitor wastewater effluent to protect local surface and groundwater resources. For example, the Baton Rouge Refinery has started construction of an advanced biological wastewater treatment facility that reduces total nitrogen loading by an additional 500 tons per year. This voluntary reduction will have direct environmental benefits on the Gulf of Mexico, where high levels of nitrogen over several years has created a dead zone, or an area of low oxygen. Spill prevention When assessing potential impacts to water or land, spill prevention is a top priority. ExxonMobil’s OIMS requirements help prevent spills by building in layers of redundancy, outlining procedures for the proper inspection and maintenance of equipment, providing comprehensive training materials for our operators, emphasizing regular performance of tests and drills, and allowing us to maintain a relentless focus on safety. In 2012, we maintained our commitment to spill prevention and improved performance relative Freshwater Consumption (millions of barrels)  Year  2009  2,186  2010  2,141  2011  2,340  2012  2,083  ExxonMobil Upstream Research Company President Sara Ortwein and Qatar University President Professor Sheikha Abdulla Al Misnad sign a partnership between ExxonMobil and Qatar University to research industrial wastewater reuse technologies. Up Close: Partnering for Water Research Technological advancements allow ExxonMobil to drive continuous improvement in mitigating the environmental impact of energy development. In October 2012, Qatar University and ExxonMobil entered into a year-long partnership to research industrial wastewater reuse technologies. In particular, researchers plan to study phytoremediation, a process using plants to clean and process industrial wastewater naturally in an engineered wetlands system. Treated wastewater could then be reused in non-potable applications, such as park or green-space irrigation. “Qatar University is proud to contribute research that addresses Qatar’s need for increased water resources, and partnering with ExxonMobil in these efforts highlights the importance we place on the wider community’s needs in terms of water reliability and sustainability. We believe this research will contribute to the goals and objectives stated in the Qatar National Vision 2030 and the National Development Strategy 2011–2016.” — Professor Sheikha Abdulla Al Misnad, Qatar University President to 2011. The total volume of hydrocarbons spilled to land or water in 2012 was about 9,000 barrels, with nearly 40 percent recovered at the spill sites. The number of hydrocarbon spills greater than one barrel in 2012 was 24 percent lower than in 2011. In 2012, ExxonMobil continued implementation of the Global Human Factors Best Practice Guide in the Downstream business. This Guide focuses on spill prevention by acting on human risk assessment and prevention considerations, including training, awareness and sharing lessons learned. Marine vessel spill performance During 2012, vessels owned and operated by ExxonMobil’s marine affiliates surpassed more than six years without any spills to water. Additionally, the vessels we utilize on long-term lease had no cargo or fuel spills for a third consecutive year. The marine fleet, which represents approximately 650 vessels in daily service, safely transported more than 1.8 billion barrels of crude oil and refined products worldwide in 2012. Safe marine transportation involves many factors, such as management policies and procedures, crew training and competencies, vessel design and maintenance, port infrastructure and regulatory oversight. Offshore spill response The first component of protecting the environment during offshore activities is preventing spills from happening. In the event of a spill, we work to make effective containment equipment and dispersants readily available. ExxonMobil partnered with several companies in 2010 to form the non-profit Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC) to develop a rapid-response oil spill containment system for the Gulf of Mexico. As part of this initiative, ExxonMobil continues to lead a multi-disciplined project team, in partnership with nine other companies, to expand the capabilities of MWCC’s existing containment system. This specially designed equipment will be usable in water depths of up to 10,000 feet and can capture up to 100,000 barrels of oil per day. The expanded containment system, expected to be completed in 2013, will be able to process, store and offload captured oil safely. Oil spill response strategies are designed to reduce environmental impacts to the extent practicable. Although mechanical recovery is favored for its ability to remove oil from the environment directly, this approach has limitations when responding to large offshore spills. Therefore, ExxonMobil has developed two new treating agents to aid oil spill response efforts. The first is a new dispersant that treats conventional oils with two-thirds less product than other formulas. The second supports the controlled burning of oil in icy environments. Arctic spill response As more of ExxonMobil’s opportunities are located in Arctic and cold weather climates, we developed a new training program focused on spill response tactics in these environments. In 2012, the course was offered in Edmonton, Alberta. Participants came from across the Corporation, including projects, operations, pipelines and corporate representatives from Canada and the United States. While many of the basic oil response techniques remain unchanged, the addition of ice and frozen conditions creates a number of logistical and environmental challenges. Training such as this, along with participation in drills and exercises related to oil spill response, are key components of ExxonMobil’s emergency response framework. We have the industry’s only We have the industry’s only dedicated, in-house oil spill response research program. dedicated, in-house oil spill response research program and have led several joint industry projects to enhance oil spill response in ice-bearing waters. Most recently, ExxonMobil, along with eight other companies, formed the International Oil and Gas Producers’ Arctic Oil Spill Response Joint Industry Program. This three-year, $20 million initiative will expand industry knowledge of, and capabilities for, Arctic oil spill prevention and response. Pipeline spill prevention and response ExxonMobil Pipeline Company (EMPCo), a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, is committed to operating its pipelines in a way that protects Other Spills (Not from Marine Vessels) Number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills greater than one barrel Spills to soil Spills to water 484 355 242 210 Year2009 2010 2011 2012 public safety and the environment. Each day, we transport about 2.8 million barrels of petroleum and chemical products through approximately 8,000 miles of pipeline in 11 U.S. states and the Gulf of Mexico. We use a comprehensive integrity management program that guides us in operating our facilities and pipelines safely, reliably and with environmental care. We regularly test and maintain our pipelines to detect corrosion and other integrity concerns. We patrol pipeline routes on the ground and in the air and closely monitor pipeline operations around the clock. State-of-the-art systems, alarms and other technologies are used to control and monitor pipeline systems. We work diligently to prevent pipeline incidents, but in the event of a pipeline emergency, we are prepared to respond quickly. We regularly communicate, plan and practice with local fire and police departments to ensure that our response to an incident will be well-coordinated and effective. In accordance with government regulations, we post our company name and 1-800 emergency notification telephone numbers on signs along the right of way for all buried pipelines at road and rail crossings. We also maintain a robust, documented public education program that includes biannual distribution of pipeline safety awareness bulletins to our neighbors in the communities near our pipelines. In the event of a significant incident, EMPCo may set up a hotline for community requests and go door-to-door to help address community concerns. Air emissions We continue to seek opportunities to reduce environmental impacts from our operations by reducing air emissions. In 2012, our combined emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) decreased by nearly 8 percent from 2011, and has decreased 42 percent from 2002 levels. For new projects, we evaluate the purchase of equipment like gas turbines that can reduce NOx emission levels. At our Baytown Olefins Plant, we deployed enhanced programs using a “SMART LDAR” camera that detects leaks and other fugitive emissions sources. In its first full year, the site estimates a 10 percent reduction in VOC emissions. We have purchased additional cameras and are increasing use of them globally. Waste management Our first waste management priority is to avoid its generation, and then to reuse or recycle waste wherever possible. As a simple example, our newly designed work gloves offer better hand protection and can be washed and reused. Following the introduction of these gloves in Malaysia, conventional glove disposal dropped more than 85 percent. The remote locations associated with our Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project pose waste management challenges due to the lack of existing acceptable waste management infrastructure. To reduce the amount of waste sent to project incinerators and landfills, we developed a waste disposal hierarchy and monthly waste metrics to visualize progress toward improved waste management. Every month, contractors prepare graphs showing the amount of waste landfilled, incinerated and reused or recycled. In 2012, the Papua New Guinea onshore pipeline contractor employed a number of waste reduc.tion and recycling measures, which yielded an 80 percent decrease in the amount of expected waste for the year. In our Fuels & Lubricants business, we have undertaken a “zero net waste” program. During 2011, we tracked waste data and set a baseline for major waste categories, including cardboard, Air Emissions (millions of metric tons) Year  VOCs  2009  0.22  2010  0.22  2011  0.23  2012  0.20  Year  SO2  2009  0.16  2010  0.14  2011  0.13  2012  0.13  Year  NOx  2009  0.13  2010  0.12  2011  0.14  2012  0.14  used oil, pallets and plastic. In 2012, we focused on a few pilot locations to identify waste reduction and disposition practices that can be integrated into site programs when the “zero net waste” findings are implemented globally. In 2012, we safely disposed of 2 million metric tons of hazardous waste from our ongoing operations. Of this amount, 1.9 million metric tons, or 95 percent, was produced water, which is classified as a hazardous waste by only one local authority. Across all other countries where we operate, produced water is not classified as a hazardous waste and is usually reinjected using deep disposal wells or discharged offshore after having first been treated to remove residual oil to meet regulatory limits. In total, we reused or recycled about 60 percent of the hazardous waste generated by our operations (excluding produced water). Up Close: Environmental Sustainability in the Supply Chain We have made significant strides in improving supply chain environmental sustainability to make our business more efficient. Our Procurement Sustainability Network aims to align our key suppliers with our environmentally sustainable supply chain initiatives. In 2012, this group taught 200 staff members about the importance of procurement sustainability and initiated a specific process to brainstorm improvements with key suppliers. We are planning to add environmental and social sustainability metrics to our strategic sourcing process to reduce our impact further. In addition, ExxonMobil Global Procurement is working with other large corporations to improve our understanding of methods to assess environmental compliance and social responsibility beyond first-tier suppliers. Our strategic sourcing specialists are already identifying opportunities to procure more environmentally sustainable products. For example, we now purchase high-efficiency electric motors used to power pumps in our operations. There are hundreds of these pumps in many of ExxonMobil’s manufacturing facilities or chemical plants. Compared with conventional motors, these motors reduce electricity use by 3 percent and long-term costs by 13 percent. To date, we have purchased more than 1,000 high-efficiency motors for U.S. Gulf Coast manufacturing sites. ExxonMobil’s Total System Cost philosophy drives the optimization of shipping routes for our materials and equipment. Recently, one of our key shipping suppliers, Maersk, achieved energy-efficiency savings and a 16 percent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions with an optimized supply chain configuration. Conventional Versus High-Efficiency Motors Total life-cycle cost Life-cycle cost breakdown (in thousands) (in thousands) Normal motor High-efficiency motor Normal motor High-efficiency motor $350 $300 $250 $200 $150 $100 $50 $0 Motor price Cost to install Energy and maintenance We also produce hazardous waste, such as contaminated sediments and sludges, from remediation activities. In 2012, remediation activities generated approximately 1.7 million metric tons or 43 percent of our hazardous waste, which was safely disposed of in compliance with applicable regulations. Drilling waste Waste at drilling sites is separated into major categories — such as chemical, organic, inorganic and metal — to be disposed of or recycled appropriately. When disposing of cuttings from drilling operations, ExxonMobil analyzes a variety of local factors to determine optimal techniques that are both cost-effective and protective of the environment. We may send cuttings to designated landfills, grind and inject them into deep wells, or treat and discharge them into the sea. Before disposing of cuttings, we collect and analyze samples to confirm that we are meeting local regulatory criteria. Compliance record Our worldwide environmental expenditures in 2012 totaled about $5.5 billion. This included about $2 billion in capital expenditures and approximately $3.5 billion in operating expenses. In 2012, 80 penalties, fines and settlements were paid, which accounted for less than 1 percent of total environmental expenditures, or about $2 million. In 2011, ExxonMobil Pipeline Company (EMPCo) experienced a breach in its Silvertip Pipeline, resulting in the release of an estimated 1,509 barrels of crude oil into Yellowstone River near Laurel, Montana. EMPCo entered into an agreed-upon Administrative Order on Consent (AOC) with the Montana Department of Environmental Quality in 2012 to resolve civil and related liabilities under state environmental laws resulting from the July 2011 spill. Under the AOC, EMPCo agreed to pay a civil penalty totaling $1.6 million, including $300,000 in cash payments and $1.3 million in Supplemental Environmental Projects that will be initiated in 2013. EMPCo reimbursed the state approximately $760,000 for past costs incurred by the state in responding to the release. We also agreed to conduct any needed additional remediation activities associated with the release and to reimburse the state for future oversight costs. Restoring the Environment Efficiently remediating and restoring disturbed land is central to reducing our overall environmental impact. To that end, we use a consistent approach that leverages ExxonMobil’s remediation practices around the world. The ExxonMobil Environmental Services (EMES) functional organization remediates impacted soil and groundwater at operating facilities, inactive properties and formerly owned sites. EMES works to enhance asset and community value and also supports new business development, while creating opportunities for the beneficial subsequent use of inactive properties. 8,000 cases monitored by EMES In 2012, EMES continued to monitor more than 8,000 cases in its portfolio. Our remediation and reclamation activities included the disposition of nearly 2,400 hectares of land for beneficial use. Since EMES’ inception in late 2007, we have spent more than $3.8 billion in project activities and returned some 860 properties to beneficial use. EMES pursues its environmental stewardship mission with nearly 300 employees working with approximately 40 environmental consulting firms. receive the Wildlife Habitat Council s Wildlife at Work certification. For example, as part of remediation activities for a former Virginia-Carolina Chemical Company fertilizer plant, ExxonMobil developed a habitat reclamation plan to return property back to grassland and forest. The plant operated from 1897 to 1932 in Blacksburg, South Carolina. Remediation work included reinstating a stream and wetland traversing through the site using native species, and improving water quality by installing a vegetated stream. ExxonMobil is donating the 13-acre site to the Town of Blacksburg for conservation use. The town is working with a local land trust, Upstate Forever, to develop the property for the local community to access for recreational use. We anticipate this transfer of property will occur in 2013. In Baltimore, Maryland, a developer has begun construction of a shopping mall, offices and a town center on land that was once part of our Baltimore refinery and products terminal. Operations ceased at the site in 1998, and at the portion of the property that will be developed, we have completed remediation activities, including product recovery, soil treatment and pipe removal. EMES is currently working with the developer to finalize additional construction plans, while upgrading a major city storm drain and working with the city and state on a planned light-rail extension. The first stores are planned to open in November 2013. Technology A combination of proven and new technologies is required to investigate, model and remediate impacted soil or groundwater. One of the ways EMES promotes technological advancement and stays abreast of cutting-edge developments is through financial support and active participation in the University Consortium for Field-Focused Groundwater Contamination Research, an affiliation of eight North American research institutes that collaborate with an additional 14 organizations around the world. At our Bayonne, New Jersey, facility, we recently partnered with a researcher to test several innovative technologies to understand and quantify some of the fundamental natural processes associated with hydrocarbon migration and biological decay, and new methods to enhance the speed of the remediation process. Another example of a technology application related to remediation is Imperial Oil Environmental Services’ specialized soil treatment facility for soil salvage and land reclamation activities in Canada. This innovative, technologically advanced facility accepts hydrocarbon-impacted soil from inactive sites and uses a bioremediation system to clean and rehabilitate it. Once the soil in treatment is determined to meet applicable guidelines, it goes back to the original site for use as backfill. This system has provided 47,000 metric tons of treated soil to nine remediation projects since 2008. An aerial view of the Mobil Adelaide Refinery in South Australia. ExxonMobil mothballed the refinery in 2003 and the site will be remediated to a standard suitable for future industrial use. land conservation enact permanent environmental protection as a Since 2002, ExxonMobil has engaged with the disposition option for surplus sites. This latter Land Trust Alliance (LTA), contributing more approach was successfully employed at two former than $500,000 toward LTA’s annual conference waterfront terminals located along the Long Island and general education programs. EMES also Sound on Long Island, New York. participates in an LTA work group to advance corporate engagement efforts related to land In 2012, ExxonMobil transferred ownership of conservation. Through the application of natural our former Cold Spring Harbor Terminal along land management strategies and proactive Cold Spring Harbor and Oyster Bay Estuary in stakeholder engagement, EMES continues to Huntington, New York, to the North Shore Land consider land conservation as a viable end use Alliance. As part of this transaction, ExxonMobil option, which includes transfer of ownership to also worked with the local Peconic Land Trust to Up Close: Site Decommissioning and Demolition in Adelaide, Australia ExxonMobil mothballed the Mobil Adelaide Refinery at Port Stanvac in South Australia in 2003 and began demolition in 2012. By the end of 2013, demolition of above-ground infrastructure is expected to be completed. The site will then be remediated to a standard suitable for future industrial use. Preparation for demolition work of the refinery began in early 2010, and the property was transferred to the EMES portfolio. The project team includes experienced refinery personnel to assist with the decommissioning strategy development, validation of the plant condition, identification of associated hazards and preparation for demolition. Following the closure of the refinery, ExxonMobil engaged a South Australian Environment Protection Authority (SA EPA)-accredited Site Environmental Auditor to oversee regular environmental assessments of the refinery site and ensure there were no offsite impacts from former refinery operations, particularly on adjacent marine waters. ExxonMobil’s environmental consultants are collecting and analyzing samples from nearly 150 groundwater wells around the site, and they are monitoring the health of the offshore marine environment. Much of the work to assess the environmental condition of the site and prepare remediation plans will be completed following the demolition of the refinery. In the meantime, ExxonMobil has entered into a Voluntary Site Contamination Assessment Proposal with the SA EPA, under which we have committed to carry out certain environmental assessment and remediation activities. We are taking every precaution to limit the impacts of this project on our neighbors and keep them informed of our project activities. We give periodic briefings to the local city council. We also regularly provide updates about our activities to the adjacent community by attending community meetings, publishing briefings in the community newsletter, sending out mailings and conducting in-person visits as necessary. Although we have not operated the refinery for many years, ExxonMobil has continued its contributions to schools and other community organizations neighboring the facility. steward a conservation easement to ensure the property was preserved in perpetuity as natural habitat and open space. In a similar transaction, ExxonMobil, the Peconic Land Trust, the Town of Southold, New York, and the Village of Greenport collaborated to reclaim and preserve a former terminal property. ExxonMobil transferred the land to the Peconic Land Trust to oversee the reclamation, and donated a deed of conservation easement to Southold, with Greenport as a party to the easement. “Many corporations today have significant land holdings… ExxonMobil recognizes the important role companies can play in our vital work to make communities healthy and vibrant places to live, work and play. As a founding member of the Land Trust Alliance’s Corporate Council, ExxonMobil’s leadership has been instrumental in helping us partner with other like-minded companies interested in supporting land conservation.” — Rand Wentworth, President, Land Trust Alliance Photo courtesy of the Land Trust Alliance, Katherine Lambert, photographer. It is in everyone’s benefit for the industry to respond to public concerns and build community trust around the development of unconventional natural gas. By 2040, we expect that natural gas will account for more than 25 percent of the world’s energy, and will have overtaken coal as the second-largest energy source. The economic and environmental implications of this shift are promising. For example, the switch to natural gas has already contributed to a reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the United States. In addition, in 2012, unconventional oil and gas production contributed $62 billion in federal, state and local government revenues in the United States, according to IHS Global Insight. Yet high-volume hydraulic fracturing, which is used to develop unconventional natural gas, continues to prompt significant questions from stakeholders. It is in everyone’s benefit for the industry to respond effectively to these public concerns. Establishing trust with local communities and stakeholders supports a stable regulatory environment, which, in turn, allows energy producers, electricity providers and manufacturers to make long-term decisions about investments in new power plants, labor, energy efficiency initiatives and future production. These benefits can have significant economic multiplier effects in society. In the past 60 years, oil and gas producers have employed hydraulic fracturing to access more than 1 million wells safely and effectively. In recent years, combining hydraulic fracturing with horizontal drilling has enabled the energy industry to produce oil and gas economically from shale formations. These technologies and responsible practices used for drilling unconventional natural gas wells are the same as those used in conventional oil and gas wells, geothermal wells and water wells; these practices are well established and are effectively regulated. Regulations and Responsible Practices Stable regulatory frameworks, coupled with sound operational practices, can assure the public that unconventional natural gas can be developed in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. Experience shows that the most effective approach to implementing regulations utilizes the knowledge and expertise of regulators who are familiar with the geological and environmental conditions in their home state. States have regulated hydraulic fracturing for decades in the United States. Nearly 99 percent of all natural gas exploration activities in the United States take place in 27 states, all of which have permitting requirements that govern the siting, drilling, completion and operation of wells, including hydraulic fracturing. As the development of unconventional natural gas continues to grow, it is important that state governments maintain their capacity for appropriate oversight and regulation. For this reason, ExxonMobil and General Electric initiated unconventional oil and gas training for state regulators and policymakers and are each investing $1 million to help regulators gain the most up-to-date knowledge to enable effective oversight as resource development grows. In the Marcellus Shale region in the northeast United States, ExxonMobil and other members of the Marcellus Shale Coalition are developing and publishing guidelines covering key aspects of oil and gas development, including well construction, site reclamation, air quality and water management. These guidelines represent good practices learned from our drilling experience in the Appalachian region of the United States. For the past three years, ExxonMobil has chaired the American Petroleum Institute working group that developed three recommended-practice documents encompassing the life cycle of unconventional hydrocarbons. A fourth guidance document, focusing on community engagement, is now being developed. Addressing Challenges Through Research and Innovation Technological advances brought us the unconventional resource “revolution,” and industry continues to research and innovate to improve operations and address environmental challenges. A few examples of ExxonMobil’s engagement efforts in this area include: • Collaborated on a major study (to be published in 2013) that provides precise measurements of methane releases to help guide improved policymaking; • Used data from XTO for a life-cycle analysis of GHG emissions and water use (published April 2013); • Partnered with a major service company to explore substituting reused produced water instead of freshwater for hydraulic fracturing in certain basins; technical results indicated a potential net savings of an estimated 8 million gallons of freshwater and approximately 1,400 avoided truck hauls of wastewater; • Conducted research within the ExxonMobil Upstream Research Company to increase performance in hydraulic fracturing operations and reduce our environmental footprint; • Created an internal scientific team to understand seismicity issues and facilitate the development and application of science-based risk management principles regarding this issue; members of the team have discussed findings and mitigation approaches with industry colleagues, academics and government officials in Asia, Europe, South America and the United States. 