SAFETY Safety is a core value at ExxonMobil. We operate in a manner that helps protect our employees, contractors, customers and the communities where we operate. Our approach to safety includes identifying possible risks, implementing measures to prevent potential incidents, and educating employees and contractors about unsafe behaviors. For 26 years, our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) has established a set of worldwide expectations for addressing risks inherent to our business, including safety risks. Our work procedures embed OIMS into our everyday work processes at all levels of the organization. Personnel safety ExxonMobil maintains a strong safety culture with a clear objective: Nobody Gets Hurt. We promote a safety-first mentality for ExxonMobil employees and contractors to reach our goal of zero workplace injuries and illnesses. Our global workforce is empowered to intervene or stop work when they observe an at-risk situation or unsafe behavior. We have achieved a nearly 80 percent improvement in our workforce lost-time incident rate since the Exxon and Mobil merger in 2000. Thousands of contract workers support our operations every day. It is essential that third-party contractors follow our policies and meet our business objectives. Since 2000, we have held safety leadership forums with contractors working on our major projects. These promote a strong safety partnership with contract workers, improving our safety performance and supporting our goal for an injury-free workplace. Process safety ExxonMobil aims to prevent the uncontrolled release of hazardous substances to avoid potential significant health incidents, safety and environmental impacts and property damage. Through our process safety efforts, we employ rigorous design, construction and operating standards at our facilities. OIMS serves as the foundation for identifying process safety risks associated with our operations. We conduct inspection and maintenance programs to test critical equipment regularly and maintain compliance with applicable regulations. Lost-time incident rate* ExxonMobil employees participate in helicopter escape training in Newfoundland, Canada. FOREWORD | ENVIRONMENT | SOCIAL | GOVERNANCE | CASE STUDY | ABOUT THIS REPORT | PERFORMANCE DATA We also use technologies such as optical imaging cameras at many of our manufacturing facilities to monitor the integrity of our operations. When we identify risks, we implement appropriate preventive measures for equipment, processes and people. We collaborate with our peers and industry associations to share lessons learned. For example, ExxonMobil is actively engaged in the Advancing Process Safety initiative, a collaborative effort between the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers and the American Petroleum Institute. The initiative aims to improve process safety performance across the industry by sharing experiences and knowledge about process safety events, hazard identification metrics and industry-proven practices. Emergency preparedness ExxonMobil is prepared to respond to a wide array of emergency events, including natural disasters and operational incidents. Regardless of the size, severity or cause of an event, each ExxonMobil facility and business unit can access trained responders and resources. Cross-functional teams develop and practice emergency response tactics through emergency support groups and incident management teams we support around the world. For example, in 2018, the ExxonMobil Americas Regional Response Team conducted an emergency response exercise in the Houston area in coordination with the Texas General Land Office. The training exercise simulated a response to an offshore oil spill where the oil reached shore. This preparation enables ExxonMobil’s global operations to provide a robust response in emergency situations to help protect the safety of people, the environment, our assets and our reputation. A recent example took place in Papua New Guinea where a magnitude 7.5 earthquake impacted the Hela Province, tragically resulting in loss of life and massive damage to roads, houses and infrastructure. Following the earthquake, ExxonMobil personnel immediately assisted communities affected by the disaster, and also donated $1 million to the Salvation Army in support of local agencies providing supplies and ongoing relief to impacted areas. ExxonMobil’s facilities in the area had been designed to withstand major earthquakes and were soon able to resume operations. 2018 performance highlights 80% IMPROVEMENT IN LOST-TIME INCIDENT RATE SINCE 2000 Since 2000, we achieved a nearly 80 percent improvement in our workforce lost-time incident rate. Spotlight 26 YEARS OF OIMS For 26 years, our Operations Integrity Management System has established a set of worldwide expectations for addressing risks inherent to our business, including safety risks. $1M DONATION FOR DISASTER RELIEF IN PAPUA NEW GUINEA ExxonMobil donated $1 million to provide supplies and ongoing relief to Papua New Guinea following a major earthquake. VIRTUAL REALITY TRAINING ExxonMobil piloted virtual reality training programs at our facilities in Baytown and Beaumont, Texas. Using technology to improve safety in ExxonMobil operations We use digital tools to support the safety of our workforce and improve safety practices in our operations. ExxonMobil is creating training modules that improve the efficiency and effectiveness of field training. The technology enables operators and engineers to engage in virtual “hands-on” training inside a simulated plant or facility that mimics what they experience on the job. Managers are able to simulate a variety of scenarios such as routine operations, emergency response, critical procedures and low-probability, high-consequence events in a safe and controlled environment. In 2018, ExxonMobil piloted virtual reality (VR) training programs at our facilities in Baytown and Beaumont, Texas, which proved more effective than traditional training methods. We also recently announced the implementation of VR training modules at our new polypropylene production unit in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. We are also partnering with Baton Rouge Community College to support a VR training laboratory, where local students learn about industry-related scenarios, including process safety and emergency response. HEALTHY AND ENGAGED WORKFORCE Worksite health and wellness The success of ExxonMobil’s operations depends on a healthy and competent workforce. Our health policy communicates corporate expectations for identifying and managing health risks related to our operations. In each country, we develop workplace health programs that consider local health care systems and health needs. Improvements in worker health increase quality of life and employee productivity. ExxonMobil supports voluntary health programs that promote employee well-being while reducing health-plan costs. Through our Culture of Health program, we enable the provision of services including health education, disease management assistance and fitness programs. The Culture of Health program is currently implemented in 22 countries, and our team continues to look for new opportunities to expand the program’s reach. We have recently added programs in Angola, Australia, Cameroon, China, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Mozambique, the Netherlands, Papua New Guinea, Saudi Arabia and Thailand. ExxonMobil also works to address broader health issues and endemic diseases in the locations where we operate, for example, malaria in sub-Saharan Africa. In 2018, the Corporate Alliance on Malaria in Africa named ExxonMobil a Champion in Sustainability Malaria Programming. The alliance is a cross-industry group for companies working in Africa that aims to expand malaria-control efforts across the continent. ExxonMobil was recognized for its efforts to protect employees, contractors, suppliers and communities from malaria. The alliance’s board noted ExxonMobil’s efforts to build health facilities and improve clinical skills in malaria-endemic countries. Diversity and inclusion Diversity of thought, ideas, perspectives, skill, knowledge and culture makes ExxonMobil more innovative, resilient and better able to navigate the complex and changing global energy business. Creating an inclusive workplace enables our global employees to bring their unique perspectives to help achieve ExxonMobil’s business objectives. Our global workforce reflects the local communities and cultures where we operate. Our objectives are to seek and hire talented, dedicated employees and give them opportunities to learn, grow and succeed. The result is a diverse and multi-faceted employee base representing different perspectives and ideas. ExxonMobil encourages participation in employee-led resource groups that assist in fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion through development programs, community service opportunities and mentoring. We consider and monitor diversity through all stages of employment, including recruitment, training and development of our employees. For example, in 2018, 36 percent of our campus engineering hires in the United States were women, which is higher than the average annual percentage of female engineering graduates. Over the past decade, 40 percent of our worldwide management, professional and engineer hires were female. In the United States, 31 percent of management, professional and engineer hires were U.S. minorities over the same time period. In 2018, 20 percent of ExxonMobil’s global executive employee population were women, and 17 percent of our U.S. executives were minorities. Khadya Kichauhi, laboratory technician at the Antwerp refinery in Belgium, tests diesel samples. Our Global Diversity Framework and Standards of Business Conduct 2018 performance highlights govern ExxonMobil employment practices, including policies for recruitment, hiring, promotions and salary administration. The Standards support our commitment to provide equal employment opportunities, prohibit discrimination in the workplace and align with applicable laws in the countries where we operate. ExxonMobil uses a series of training programs and tools to help our employees understand cultural sensitivities across a diverse workforce. We do not tolerate harassment in any form. Employees are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, for any act of harassment. ExxonMobil has been recognized for our commitment to diversity. In March 2019, the company received the Keeper of the Flame Legacy Award from the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) at its 75th anniversary event. The award recognizes companies that have supported UNCF since its inception in 1944. Employee attraction and retention We prioritize the development of each one of our employees. It begins with recruiting exceptional talent and continues with individually planned assignments and experiences that lead to broad skill development and a deep understanding of our businesses. This career-oriented, personalized approach results in a retention rate of 96 percent and an average length of service of 30 years for our career employees. It also facilitates development of the next generation of leaders from within the company. Through a combination of work assignments, on-the-job experiences, and focused training and education, employees acquire the necessary skills and competencies to take on increasing levels of responsibility and job complexity. ExxonMobil invests in our people for a long-term career. We spend an average of $100 million per year on training and in 2018 had more than 25,000 job rotations in support of employee development plans. CULTURE OF HEALTH PROGRAM IN 22 COUNTRIES We implemented the Culture of Health program in 22 countries, and our team continues to look for new opportunities to expand the program’s reach. 43% INCREASE IN FEMALE EXECUTIVES SINCE 2008 Twenty percent of ExxonMobil’s executive employee population are women, an increase of 43 percent over the past decade. 55% INCREASE IN MINORITY EXECUTIVES SINCE 2008 Seventeen percent of our U.S. executives are minorities, an increase of 55 percent over the past 10 years. 25K JOB ROTATIONS WORLDWIDE ExxonMobil had more than 25,000 job rotations in support of employee development plans. Local workforce training at the Juni Training Center in Mozambique. HUMAN RIGHTS ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights as a fundamental principle in our operations, implemented through training and the application of our policies and practices. Our business presence can and should have a positive influence on the people in the communities where we operate. Our practices reflect the spirit and intent of the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Elements of the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights also guide our approach to managing human rights. ExxonMobil conducts human rights training to help build an understanding of human rights issues and an awareness of potential human rights risks. More than 1,600 employees in 47 countries have completed the training since 2015. ExxonMobil utilizes a risk screening tool to assess potential human rights impacts associated with our activities, and integrates it into our Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment process so that the risks are appropriately mitigated. Our efforts to manage human rights issues reflect evolving international initiatives. ExxonMobil works closely with IPIECA to monitor business and human rights trends, and to share and develop practices in human rights supply chain management from the oil and gas industry and other extractive industries. ExxonMobil contributed to a set of practical guidance documents and tools issued by IPIECA on Company and Supply Chain Labour Rights in the Oil and Gas Industry. The series of guidance documents addresses the potential human rights impacts and issues that may occur through business relationships, particularly in the industry supply chain. Security and human rights ExxonMobil’s Statement of Principles on Security and Human Rights establishes the expectation that all business units provide security for personnel, facilities and operations in a manner that respects human rights. The framework guides our majority-owned operating affiliates on how to manage interactions with both host government-assigned security and private security providers. It also provides guidance for documenting allegations of human rights abuses by public or private security personnel and any incidents of inappropriate physical force used by security providers in the protection of company assets. Depending on the nature of an incident, our procedures include reporting to host governments. Where appropriate, our standard security services contracts include provisions requiring that personnel receive training to understand and comply with the following: • ExxonMobil’s Statement of Principles on Security and Human Rights • Local laws and regulations • Provisions of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights • The Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the 1998 International Labour Organization Declaration • U.N. Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials • U.N. Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials ExxonMobil, RISE International and Educate A Child have partnered to help remove barriers to education in Angola, including plans to build 25 primary schools to help 24,000 children. These standard security services contract provisions require contractors to monitor, report and investigate allegations of human rights abuses. Contractors are required to immediately remove any of their personnel credibly alleged to have committed a human rights abuse. Since 2016, nearly 17,000 personnel have been trained on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, a multi-stakeholder initiative that focuses on ways to maintain the safety and security of operations while respecting human rights. Using the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights to train on-the-ground security personnel can help reduce human rights risks. In some instances, ExxonMobil is required by host governments to provide security services. ExxonMobil has signed agreements with governments in Chad, Colombia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and Mozambique that include expectations for respecting human rights consistent with the Voluntary Principles, as well as compliance with relevant local, U.N. and other security-related frameworks. Human rights in the supply chain ExxonMobil clearly communicates its expectations on human rights to its suppliers on an annual basis. These expectations include references to key international human rights frameworks, including the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. ExxonMobil also complies with all relevant laws and regulations regarding human rights. For example, in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, we prepare an annual slavery and human trafficking statement. ExxonMobil’s annual conflict minerals filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission provides disclosures regarding supply sources of gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum. 2018 performance highlights COMPUTER-UTILIZED BASED HUMAN A RISK RIGHTS SCREENING TRAINING IN TOOL 47 We use a risk screening COUNTRIES tool prior to conducting broader Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessments to Since 2015, more than SINCE 2015 mitigate potential human 1,600 key employees in rights impacts. 47 countries completed our human rights computer-based training module. In 2016, we developed human rights awareness training tailored to procurement professionals to help improve their understanding of human rights. Since then, we completed training for more than 220 ExxonMobil procurement employees. Our procurement department reviews goods purchased in countries that are included in the U.S. Department of Labor’s List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor. The list calls attention to goods and countries that may use child or forced labor in production. While our review does not assess a material’s country of origin, it enables us to assess purchases of higher-risk commodities. In addition, we use data from our global purchasing systems and the Department of Labor’s list to prioritize mitigation efforts in our direct supply chain. ~17K TRAINED ON VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS SINCE 2016 We have helped train nearly 17,000 personnel on the Voluntary Principles. 220 PROCUREMENT PROFESSIONALS TRAINED ON HUMAN RIGHTS SINCE 2016 Since 2016, 220 procurement professionals have completed human rights awareness training. For information on supply chain management, including supplier diversity, visit our website. COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS ExxonMobil works closely with local communities where we operate to help support their needs. We collaborate with governments and local stakeholders to invest in programs that promote local economic growth and improve social conditions. Local economic growth and development ExxonMobil adds economic value to countries where we operate by employing and training the local workforce and supporting local suppliers. We develop a local content plan specific to each country or area to establish long-term economic benefits. When we hire local employees, they may receive additional training to develop technical and leadership skills, improving their overall employability. Our development program includes training on relevant technical and vocational skills, health and safety, environmental protection, management skills and business conduct. ExxonMobil also helps drive local and regional economic progress. An example is ExxonMobil’s Growing the Gulf initiative. Growing the Gulf is expected to create more than 45,000 high-paying jobs by building and expanding manufacturing facilities along the U.S. Gulf Coast. The production of natural gas in U.S. shale basins, including those found in the Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico, has grown significantly in recent years and has enabled Gulf Coast development. A recent study estimates the company’s development of Permian Basin resources in New Mexico will generate approximately $64 billion in net economic benefits for the state and local communities over the next 40 years, creating thousands of new jobs and providing increased funding for education, health and human services, and infrastructure improvements. ExxonMobil supports local communities by funding anti-malaria programs and providing malaria-prevention materials such as bed nets. Social investments Our social investments address key needs such as access to health care, disaster relief, education and economic development. In 2018, we contributed $211 million to communities around the world, which includes donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, the ExxonMobil Foundation, employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift and volunteer programs, and disaster relief. For example, in Angola, educational challenges include the shortage of appropriate facilities. In partnership with RISE International and Educate A Child, ExxonMobil plans to build 25 new primary schools in Angola for 24,000 children currently out of school in the provinces of Luanda, Benguela and Bié. At the end of 2018, seven schools were completed and the program began enrolling students. In January 2019, ExxonMobil celebrated the opening of two additional primary schools. Our employees are passionate about engaging in their communities, and we encourage them to contribute to the communities where they live and work. Through our U.S. volunteer involvement program, we provide a $500 donation to the employee’s charity of choice for every 20 hours a volunteer works, up to four times per year. Over 15,000 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and their families volunteered more than 440,000 hours at 3,500 charitable organizations in 33 countries in 2018. More than 4,200 employees and retirees donated nearly $17 million to approximately 830 colleges and universities, as well as minority scholarship programs. The ExxonMobil Foundation matched that amount with nearly $33 million in 2018. For information on working with local communities, please visit our website. 2018 performance highlights XTO Energy co-founds the Permian Strategic Partnership $1.3B CONTRIBUTED TO EDUCATION SINCE 2000 Since 2000, we have contributed more than $1.3 billion to education programs around the world, including approximately $58 million in 2018. Spotlight $170M INVESTED TO COMBAT MALARIA SINCE 2000 Since 2000, ExxonMobil has invested nearly $170 million to support malaria research, education and treatment programs. $120M CONTRIBUTED TO IMPROVE WOMEN’S ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES SINCE 2005 Since 2005, we have invested approximately $120 million in programs that develop female entrepreneurs and business leaders and improve access to technology for women. CREATING 45K+ JOBS IN THE GULF COAST Growing the Gulf is expected to create more than 45,000 jobs by building and expanding manufacturing facilities. ExxonMobil’s XTO Energy subsidiary aims to balance growing energy production in the Permian Basin with the needs of communities in the area. In 2018, XTO Energy co-founded the Permian Strategic Partnership, an alliance of 20 energy companies developing oil and natural gas resources in the Permian Basin. The partnership collaborates with trade associations, chambers of commerce, local governments and philanthropic groups to address community challenges in western Texas and southeastern New Mexico. The partnership opened an office in 2019 to guide this multi-year effort. Partnership members have collectively pledged more than $100 million to improve the quality of life for families in the area. Members are collaborating with local leaders to understand specific needs of individual communities. Through this initial engagement, the partnership identified the need for safer roads, better schools, quality health care, affordable housing and a trained workforce. It is in the process of identifying and supporting programs to help manage these needs. 