Caring for our workforceOur approachThe people of ExxonMobil are our most important competitive advantage. Our success, today and in the future, is based on the talent, ingenuity and hard work of our people, fueled by pride in what we do and what we stand for.Our ability to attract the world’s best talent is important to our success. Developing people and maintaining a strong culture are core strategic priorities essential to achieving our long-term objectives.Our focus areasLeading in personnel safety   Enhancing process safety   Excerpt: Investing in People   An ExxonMobil employee uses a handheld radio to speak with someone.Leading in personnel safetyAt ExxonMobil, our people are our most valuable resource. We have a long history of embedding safety into our culture. The culture is reinforced by safety leadership, standards, practices and experience. We focus on an integrated framework of systems, processes, tools and behaviors aimed at eliminating injuries and fatalities. We aspire to an environment where Nobody Gets Hurt and our Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) demonstrates results from our top tier safety programs[17]. In 2021, we maintained best-ever results with a LTIR of 0.02 per 200,000 work hours[18]. We plan to build on this industry-leading position. ExxonMobil is committed to protecting the safety, security and health of our employees, our contractors and others involved with our operations, as well as our customers and the public. These commitments are documented in the Safety, Health, Environment and Product Safety policies found in our Standards of Business Conduct. Our work in this area is put into practice through OIMS, which guides the daily activities of our global workforce by setting clear expectations for managing the risks inherent to our business. The OIMS framework goes beyond our employees to include third-party providers and contractors. We include specific safety and health expectations in contractual agreements with these third parties. We focus on delivering consistent, sustainable results through OIMS and leaders engage with their teams to drive effective application. Each business unit has leadership management systems and work processes aimed to consistently meet operations objectives.More information on personnel safety, including lifesaving rules and actions, human performance, culture of health and training can be found on our website.PDF link.Standards of Business ConductWeb link.Our approach to leading in personnel safetyHealthy and engaged workforceExxonMobil Global Medicine and Occupational Health uses Centers of Excellence in clinical, infectious disease, industrial hygiene and health promotion with members from across the globe to develop processes that guide programs in operations around the world. This approach supports the health of workers and surrounding communities where we operate. Our health management systems have recently been enhanced to focus on high-priority health issues and safeguards. These elements enable ExxonMobil to address total workforce health more effectively.When the COVID-19 pandemic emerged in early 2020, our emergency preparedness and response procedures were swiftly triggered at the country, regional and facility levels, building on lessons learned from SARS, Pandemic Flu, MERS and Ebola. Our preventive and mitigation safeguards, combined with coordinated internal communications, helped protect the health and safety of our workers and their dependents. Our measures were continually refined as more information about the virus was identified, in consultation with internal and external health experts.When vaccines became available, they were globally promoted for early access by our employees through administration sites in the community and our workplaces, in close collaboration with local health authorities. Extensive information on the vaccines, COVID-19 and safeguard adaptation were periodically communicated to workers through multiple channels, including webinars with world-renowned experts.Concurrently, we globally deployed resilience programs and made mental health initiatives available to employees and dependents, effectively supporting them in minimizing the substantial impact of the pandemic on their personal and professional lives. An ExxonMobil employee with a phone in hand, smiles at something out of frame.Building safety into a new operationIn 2021, we announced the collaborative startup of Gulf Coast Growth Ventures (GCGV) petrochemical manufacturing facility in San Patricio County, Texas, a joint venture with Sabic. This plant, which began operations in early 2022, can produce packaging materials, agricultural film, construction materials, clothing and automotive coolants, helping to meet the growing demand for performance products. Safety was embedded in the development and operation of this facility to help protect our people, minimize risks across the operations and promote excellence in performance. Before employees could work at GCGV, they had to undergo 18–24 months of training at ExxonMobil facilities to learn responsible operating procedures. These actions enabled us to build and open the plant safely ahead of schedule and under budget.Three ExxonMobil employees converse while monitoring equipment at a facility.Enhancing process safetySafety is a core value and an integral part of our culture. Process Safety focuses on managing the hazards that can be created from the vast equipment and complex processes that are essential to our business. The primary purpose is to keep hydrocarbons, chemicals and process water controlled and safely managed at all times through all phases of our operations.Process safety events can potentially impact the workforce, the community and the environment. Because of this, we set high expectations for ourselves. Everyone involved in our operations plays a role in driving process safety excellence. We are now in the fourth year of a corporate-wide Process Safety initiative. From 2016 through 2021, we achieved a 31% reduction in Tier 1 process safety events (those of greatest consequence) with further improvement steps underway.To help protect our employees, contractors, communities where we work and the environment, ExxonMobil uses a proactive, disciplined approach to managing risks inherent to our operations. Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) serves as the foundation for managing process safety risks, establishing clear expectations. The safeguards built into OIMS are integral to how we design, operate and maintain our facilities. We work to verify and rigorously manage these safeguards through maintenance, inspection, operations testing, competency demonstrations and emergency preparedness drills. As part of OIMS, ExxonMobil monitors the performance of joint ventures and assets operated by others consistent with our expectations and encourages them to consider improvements as appropriate. As part of ExxonMobil’s approach to enterprise risk management, higher-consequence process safety risks and risk management strategies are stewarded by the company’s Management Committee. Our Upstream, Product Solutions and Low Carbon Solutions companies develop and execute these strategies with centralized support from ExxonMobil Technology and Engineering Company and from the ExxonMobil Global Operations & Sustainability organization’s Process Safety and Reliability and Maintenance Center of Excellence. Our primary objective is to help protect our people, communities and the environment by successfully managing and enhancing process safety.Web link.Our approach to enhancing process safetyWorkplace securityExxonMobil’s robust security measures are designed to protect our personnel, including senior executives, and facilities from threats. Our security programs comply with regulations, are risk-based, flexible and responsive to the environments in which we operate.Facilities undergo periodic security analyses to address potential threats. Each assessment considers geographic location, relationships with the community, criminal activity and the current political climate. We monitor local conditions and maintain detailed security preparedness plans, such as evacuation and intruder response plans. We train employees who travel to and live in higher-risk countries on personal safety in challenging security environments. Our security personnel work to improve our risk management methodologies, threat-assessment capabilities and technical security management processes through drills, training programs and industry forums. An ExxonMobil employee wears safety googles and gloves while operating a piece of machinery.Cybersecurity business continuity and managementProtecting our people and assets includes managing the risks posed by cyber-attacks. As cybersecurity risks continue to evolve, we must protect our business against cyber-related business disruptions and threats that can potentially affect our data, facilities, operations and the safety and privacy of our people. Awareness remains one of our best defenses and cybersecurity education is a priority for ExxonMobil. All of our personnel must complete annual web-based cybersecurity training to help them understand and respond to potential cybersecurity risks and to reinforce safe behaviors.In addition to promoting safe behaviors, we have developed business continuity plans with a suite of enablers that will be activated in the event of a major cyber-attack. Our business continuity plans are reviewed for compliance, performance and improvements via annual updates and periodic drills. Emergency preparednessExxonMobil is prepared to respond to a wide array of emergency events, including natural disasters, pandemics and operational incidents. Each ExxonMobil facility has access to trained responders and resources. Centralized and cross-functional teams develop and practice emergency response tactics through incident management teams and emergency support groups around the world, which enables us to provide a robust response in emergency situations to help protect people, the environment and our communities.In 2021, our Regional Response Team (RRT) demonstrated its “Readiness to Respond” capabilities under pandemic circumstances by conducting an innovative exercise that simulated a global response to a potential real-life oil spill event. Approximately 300 RRT personnel and response partners from more than 35 countries were.involved in a continuous 28-hour follow-the-sun event, with face-to-face hubs in Singapore, the U.K., Prague and Houston, along with virtual support globally. Exercises like this help support our objective to be prepared and ready to respond.Six people come together around a picnic table, smiling at a laptop screen sitting on the table. Excerpt: Investing in PeopleThe people of ExxonMobil are our most important competitive advantage. Our success, current and future, is based on the talent, ingenuity and hard work of our people, fueled by pride in what we do and what we stand for. Developing people and maintaining a strong culture are core strategic priorities essential to achieving our long-term objectives. We remain focused on building a diverse workforce and productive work environment where individual and cultural differences are respected, where every individual is challenged to deliver their best, and has the opportunity for unrivaled personal and professional development.PDF link.Investing in People2021 Highlights Throughout 2021, the people of ExxonMobil strengthened our leadership position, consistently demonstrating our core values including care, courage and resilience as they helped society recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Because of their efforts, ExxonMobil delivered industry-leading safety, reliability and financial results in an extremely challenging environment.Our goals Our achievements A place to thrive .	Expanded benefits to support employees’ well-being due to COVID-19.	Progressed We Are ExxonMobil culture initiative and expanded employee engagements Attract the 
best talent .	Awarded #1 most attractive U.S. energy company for engineering students, #2 globally.	Strong global acceptance rates.	Increased diverse talent across professional pipeline and wage populations Enable employees to reach their 
full potential .	Continued investment in talent through job rotations, training and learning.	500,000 courses delivered in 2021 Develop future leaders .	Refreshed leadership training curriculum in support of We Are ExxonMobil.	Increased diversity among executives; women and U.S. minority representation up 35% since 2017 Harness diversity .	Fostered inclusive behaviors, embedded in We Are ExxonMobil and through annual skills assessments.	Expanded career advocacy and mentoring programs, focusing organizational effort An ExxonMobil employee motions to an audience, standing in front of an ExxonMobil presentation. Bird's eye view of an oil rig in the ocean.About the Sustainability ReportOur approachThe Sustainability Report summarizes ExxonMobil’s approach to managing our operations and describes our ESG performance. The results of our topic selection helped determine the key topics discussed in the report. For further information on all topics that are important to ExxonMobil, please visit our website.This publication was issued on Dec. 15, 2022. This report focuses primarily on ExxonMobil’s operations from Jan. 1, 2021, through Dec. 31, 2021, unless otherwise indicated. Information regarding some known events or activities in 2022 are also included.The reporting guidelines and indicators in the Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020) developed by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) informed this report. This report also references the GRI Standards.Web link.Exxonmobil.comOur focus areasTopic selection and content index   Performance data table   Cautionary note on forward-looking statements   Endnotes   Top down view of a city street's roundabout. 