Economic Development hiGhLiGhts $77+  60%  $237  million spent  of our employees  million in combined  on corporate and  are located outside  corporate and employee  technical training  the United States  giving in the form  of cash, goods, and  services worldwide  perforMance overview  what we said in 2009 • spend $1 billion a year with u.s. minority and women owned businesses by year end 2012 • work with the governments of cameroon, equatorial Guinea, kazakhstan, and nigeria to advance their Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (eiti) validation efforts before the March 2010 deadline • study the benefits of our operations related and social investments to host communities • continue to expand the ExxonMobil Malaria Initiative to relevant tropical countries outside of africa what we did in 2010 • spent $812 million with u.s. minority and women owned businesses • elected to serve on the iraqi eiti council • Launched a new national content web based toolkit • awarded $1 million to technologies identified through the Women / Tools / Technology: Building Opportunities and Economic Power Challenge • conducted a pilot supplier diversity training in accra, Ghana, with our Africa Businesswomen s Network members what we plan to do • fund 10 scholarships for a Masters in Global health science at oxford university to help train the next genera tion of health leaders from developing countries and emerging markets • approach a 90 percent russian work force at our sakhalin 1 project by 2012 • Launch a Latin America Businesswomen s Network • work with Medicines for Malaria venture to fund clinical trials of new anti malarial drugs in papua new Guinea 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 39 Contributing to economic development in the countries where we operate is part of ExxonMobil’s business strategy. We focus on economic growth as a precondition for achieving development targets such as the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, which encompass a full range of corporate responsibility issues, from environmental sustainability and combating HIV/AIDS to promoting gender equality and achieving universal primary education. Achieving sustainable impact is no small chal.lenge, especially when faced with competing local priorities, high expectations of the pace of progress, and shifting political agendas. As a significant presence in many emerging markets, ExxonMobil works alongside a host of other actors to overcome the many barriers to economic growth. National content It is a business imperative that our pres.ence contributes to the social and economic development of local communities and host nations. By establishing comprehen.sive programs in the areas of workforce development, supplier development, and strategic community investments, we help to build capacity and sustain economic growth beyond the life cycle of our projects. Collectively, we refer to this approach as national content. A successful national content program requires long-term perspective driven by clearly defined and consistently applied management processes. National content is integrated into overall project and execution through the ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS). As part of EMCAPS, every new upstream project in an emerging market must develop a project-specific National Content Plan. A plan consists of goals and objectives; an outline of the approach and requirements for workforce development, supplier develop.ment, and strategic community investments; performance monitoring; and reporting. Individual plans are customized for each country to account for local factors such as regulatory requirements, business environ.ment, workforce capability, supply base, and infrastructure. As a project progresses from one stage of development to the next, the National Content Plan must be reviewed and revised accordingly. Our contractors also play a significant role in the execution of the National Content Plan. In many instances during the project phase, our Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) contractors drive much of the work.force and supplier development. We ensure that our national content priorities are met by including requirements in our EPC contracts. EPC contractors are expected to execute these plans through their subcontractors. Our National Content Development— Guidelines, Strategies, and Best Practices Guidebook provides an overview of the key elements of a National Content Strategy and Plan; models and tools for the suc.cessful development of national content components; and roles and responsibilities at the corporate, country, and project levels. This past year, we launched a new national content Web-based toolkit consisting of best practices, sample tools for national content implementation, and case studies. Workforce development Workforce development is a long-term approach to recruiting and training that enables the Corporation to meet future staff.ing needs and business objectives. Where applicable, we include requirements in our contracts for our contractors and suppli.ers to hire and train a national workforce. We strategically implement development programs to meet local hiring objectives and overcome challenges related to availability of experienced candidates and in-country training capabilities. Local hiring. We have made significant strides in hiring host country nationals. The company uses a variety of best practices to support local hiring, including on-campus recruiting, campus recruiting focused on nationals studying abroad, employee net.working, trade organization and Web site referrals, and external search firms. In 2010, approximately 60 percent of our employees were located outside the United States. ExxonMobil expatriates (individuals working in a country other than their country of permanent residence) are deployed around the globe to share their expertise as well as train and mentor nationals for operational and leadership roles. In 2010, expatriates accounted for approximately 5 percent of our total workforce. training and development. With careful attention to the job requirements of each stage of development, we apply global principles in a proven training curricu.lum to address local challenges. Training typically covers ExxonMobil culture, ethics, and business practices; safety practices; environmental regulations; English language; skill-specific training; facility-specific training; work assignments and on-the-job training; and mentoring and coaching. ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System staGe 1 Development/ business planning  staGe 2 Evaluate and select project  staGe 3 Define project/ execution planning  staGe 4 Execute project  Early National Content Plan developed  Comprehensive National Content Plan completed and approved by project team  Implement National Content Plan  40 exxonmobil.com Training Expenditures and Number of Employees Trained Spending (millions of dollars) Employees trained (participants) 07 08 09 10  $61 $69 $71  $77  07 08 09 10  35,000 48,000 52,000  61,000  Expatriates by Region of Origin Total 3833 North America 1778 Europe 1141 Asia Pacific 592 Latin America 167 Africa/Middle East 155 In addition to early career training, we provide corporate and technical training to employees throughout their careers. In 2010, our major business units together spent more than $77 million on training, reaching more than 61,000 participants. To strengthen our technical capacity, approximately 35,000 participants attended more than 3700 professional technical training sessions. Nearly 3300 employees at various levels of management participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training programs in 2010. Approximately 25 percent of par.ticipants were women and 59 percent were non-U.S. employees. Supplier development Supplier development is a long-term invest.ment of time, people, and resources to improve supply chain reliability, reduce costs, strengthen host country economies, and promote ExxonMobil as a partner of choice. We are dedicated to working with host gov.ernments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and other stakeholders to develop local capacity. The focus on supplier develop.ment begins in the early stages of the project life cycle and continues to evolve throughout the life of the operation. Our ultimate goal is a stable and globally competitive supply chain. To consistently develop local suppliers, best practices are institutionalized through our global processes. These practices include local supplier databases, enterprise centers for business development and training, tailored work scopes, supplier forums, and electronic bidding. Another proactive approach we employ is to break down large bid packages into scopes of work that enable local suppliers to compete for—and win—small projects. For example, in Indonesia, camp management projects were divided into catering, maintenance, and pest control. As local contractors develop their capability and expertise, they begin to compete for bigger packages. purchasing from minority-and women-owned businesses. Expanding opportunities for minority-and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs) and local suppliers provides economic growth to local areas, expands our supplier base, and builds customer and supplier loyalty. In the United States, our Supplier Diversity Program ensures that qualified MWBE suppli.ers are included in our procurement sourcing process. In 2010, we made continued progress toward our goal of purchasing materials and services worth $1 billion annually from MWBEs by year-end 2012. This represents 7 percent of our total procurement-managed spending in the United States. In 2010, we spent $812 million, representing a 36-percent increase since 2006. We are considering opportunities to further expand our program internationally in Australia, Canada, China, and the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, we introduced tools to allow procurement staff to more easily identify and work with minority suppliers. Access to diverse suppliers, defined differently by country, poses challenges as supplier diversity programs mature internationally. In addition to offering supply chain opportuni.ties to MWBEs, ExxonMobil funds scholarships for suppliers to attend specialized programs at business schools in the United States. Strategic community investments As we invest in communities, we pursue long-term projects with strategic goals that are aligned with global and social priorities as well as our business strengths. We seek to have a more meaningful impact by focusing the majority of our spending on significant challenges in the regions where we operate. best practice: workforce development in russia Exxon Neftegas Limited (ENL) and its contractors currently employ more than 570 Russian nationals, making up 80 percent of the Sakhalin-1 project workforce. As Russian national employees are trained and gain experience, they will approach 90 percent of the workforce by 2012. A small local population, combined with a complicated economic crisis in the 1980s and 1990s that steered people away from geology, engineering, or construction, created the current competitive market for skilled workers. To successfully compete for national workers and meet its needs for skilled field personnel, ENL invests in the training and development of national personnel. In 2000, ENL started its own technician training program. After training three groups, ENL contracted PKT Training Services to create the Sakhalin Technical Training Center (STTC). All training performed at the STTC is mapped against a Competency Assurance Program that includes necessary knowledge, aware.ness, and skills assessments. Today, the training programs meet Russian regulatory standards and are internationally accredited. The STTC facility provides on-the-job training as well as theoretical instruction and net.working opportunities. In 2010, 41 trainees graduated from the program, bringing the total since 2000 to 167. Percent of Local Workforce in Sakhalin 05  64%  06  70%  07  72%  08  78%  09  77%  10  80%  Our worldwide spending includes con.tributions to nonprofit organizations as well as funds invested in social projects through various joint-venture arrange.ments, production-sharing agreements, projects operated by others, and contrac.tual social bonus arrangements. In 2010, Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, including XTO Energy Inc., and the ExxonMobil Foundation provided a combined $199 million in cash, goods, and services worldwide. Of the total, $119 million supported communities in the United States and $80 million supported communities in other countries. Our signature programs address three long-term social challenges that directly impact the success of our own business: eliminating malaria; advancing economic opportunities for women; and improving education, especially in mathematics and science. Ongoing stakeholder engage.ment helps us to identify local projects and partnerships that support our strategic investments. We believe that public-private partnerships are key to improving difficult social and economic issues. ExxonMobil Malaria Initiative. Ending the spread of malaria will require multiple approaches, including bed-net distribution, preventive education, and research into new and accessible treatments. Over the last decade, ExxonMobil has emerged as a corporate leader in the fight against malaria. Since 2000, we have made cash grants of more than $83 million to help fund malaria programs across sub-Saharan Africa. Our funding has allowed our partners to reach more than 39 million people; provided 11.4 million bed nets, 1.6 million doses of anti-malarial drugs, and 820,000 rapid diagnostic kits; and trained 116,000 health.care workers. Our funding also helped to develop three new pediatric anti-malarial drugs and gain acceptance for the first-ever malaria vaccine. In 2010, ExxonMobil awarded more than $14 million to 21 organizations for projects across Africa and expanded our work into the Asia Pacific region, where malaria is also endemic. See the global citizen.ship stories on our Web site for numerous examples of our specific contributions to malaria initiatives. Women’s Economic Opportunity Initiative. Enabling women to reach their economic potential is a critical driver of social develop.ment and progress. When women are able to generate and control income, they invest a large share of it in the health, education, and well-being of their families. This benefits the entire community. We focus on three key strategies to improve women’s economic opportunities globally: developing women entrepreneurs and busi.ness leaders, creating a level playing field for 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 41 women’s economic participation, and identify.ing and deploying technologies to accelerate women’s economic advancement. In 2010, ExxonMobil made grants totaling more than $9 million—bringing our cumulative investment since 2005 to $41 million—to help women in 88 countries fulfill their economic potential and drive change in their communities. In partnership with Ashoka’s Changemakers and the International Center for Research on Women (ICRW), we implemented the Women / Tools / Technology: Building Opportunities and Economic Power Challenge that identi.fied 268 transformative solutions from 67 countries to promote women’s economic advancement through technology. At the 2010 Clinton Global Initiative annual meeting, we announced $1 million in grants to support the expansion of high-impact, sustainable technology-driven business models identi.fied through the challenge. One exemplary technology is a solar-powered drip irrigation system that enables women farmers to grow crops during a dry season. To further support best practice: supplier development in chad Using local suppliers can be challenging where local business expertise has not fully developed or where safety and product quality standards have not yet been met. Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc. (EEPCI) works to improve local business and operating performance. EEPCI conducted a major assessment of local supplier skills in 2006 and found signif.icant gaps in accounting, risk management, human resources, and other areas. Together with the Chamber of Developing Enterprise and the Chadian Chamber of Commerce, EEPCI opened an Enterprise Center in 2006 to address gaps observed during the supplier assessment. The Center rates suppliers for eligibility for EEPCI contracts and provides training to rated suppliers to improve their business and technical skills. In 2007, EEPCI introduced an electronic pro.curement system and has since trained more than 22 suppliers on electronic bidding, a skill that allows local suppliers to better participate in EEPCI’s bidding process. While preserv.ing the integrity of the bidding process, the system facilitates the application process and checks for completeness and errors. Together with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Center developed strategies and programs with financial institutions to help local businesses access financial resources and demonstrate their ability to execute a contract. In 2010, four training sessions were held for 42 par.ticipants. The training included the IFC small-and medium-enterprise training package, which addresses private sector management performance gaps and busi.ness needs. To date, more than 300 small and medium enterprises have received training at the Enterprise Center. Chadian companies were awarded contracts for services totaling $110 million in 2010. 42 exxonmobil.com 2010 Community Investments by Focus Area (millions of dollars) Worldwide total* $237.1 Pre-college education $53.4 Higher education $42.6 Civic and community $40.4 Employee and retiree giving $37.9 Health $22.5 Other education $13.6 Public policy research $7.6 United appeals and Workplace giving $7.5 Environment $6.9 Arts and culture $4.7 *Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and XTO donations and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief, and employee giving programs. grant recipients, we are working with the Thunderbird School of Global Management’s Emerging Markets Laboratory to provide on.the-ground business consulting support. We continue to support skills training for women entrepreneurs through regional businesswomen’s networks, which focus on expanding the number of women succeed.ing in business and advocating for policies to remove legal barriers. Our partner, Vital Voices, has provided training, business exchange programs, and networking oppor.tunities to 4100 participants in the Middle East and North Africa and more than 7000 women in sub-Saharan Africa. We will support the launch of a Latin America Businesswomen’s Network in 2011. To aid supplier development, we supported our partner Vital Voices in conducting a four-day supplier diversity pilot program in Ghana for participants from our African business.women network hubs in Cameroon, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, and Uganda. Content included key steps for becoming a supplier to multinational corporations, and for implementing in-country supplier diversity training sessions and pilot activities in their home countries. In 2011, the African busi.nesswomen network hubs will build on the 2010 supplier diversity training by engaging with government and private sector officials to clarify their procurement processes and encourage increased purchasing from women-led businesses. education. Globally, a strong focus on educa.tion empowers communities and builds the foundation for human progress. Healthy and educated communities also create a stable operating environment and a future pool of talented candidates for employment. Since 2006, our contribution to education efforts has totaled nearly $421 million. In 2010, we directed nearly $110 million to education worldwide, of which more than $42 million was dedicated to math and science educa.tion in the United States. pan-european math and science program. Our regional presence is a strategic advan.tage that we employ to maximize the benefits of our community investments. In 2010, ExxonMobil designed a pan-European program to help students ages 15 to 18 think in practical ways about the energy issues they will face in the future. Partnered with Junior Achievement Young Enterprise Europe, ExxonMobil funds the Sci-Tech Challenge to encourage interest in math-, science-, and technology-oriented careers. The three-year, $839,000 program will reach approximately 10,000 students. In 2010, approximately 60 schools, nearly 150 vol.unteers, and more than 1200 students from Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands, applying national content best practices in papua new Guinea We are applying best practices and lessons learned across our projects and operations to develop an effective National Content Plan for improving the economic and social well-being of Papua New Guinea. workforce development Similar to our Sakhalin, Russia, operations, our strategy is to increase the participation of Papua New Guinean employees over the life span of the project, and to provide the neces.sary technical and professional skills training for working on existing and future projects. To facilitate implementation of this strat.egy, the project is building several training facilities. The Port Moresby Construction Training Facility, which officially opened in 2010, and the Juni Construction Training Facility will train up to 4000 students during the construction phase of the project. More than 400 trainees graduated from a temporary training facility in 2010, including 84 women. To prepare for project start-up, 76 individuals were recruited to attend the Production Operations Training Center in Port Moresby in 2010, including 20 women. A class of a similar size will be recruited in 2011. Successful graduates will be prepared to operate and maintain this world-class liquefied natural gas production facility. supplier development The project supports the development of the local business economy through the purchase of goods and services in Papua New Guinea and by developing long-term supplier relationships. Through 2010, we had already exceeded our commitment to spend $450 million in Papua New Guinea, with local spending totaling more than $550 million. Local capacity is promoted by helping suppliers meet global stan.dards, providing training for entrepreneurs, and creating business opportunities for local small and medium enterprises. In March 2010, the project opened a resource center to assist selected Papua New Guinean suppliers to strengthen their business processes and skills. We include requirements in our contracts with our multinational suppliers to prioritize the hiring of local firms, implement training, and execute a local business development program. Local suppliers must be finan.cially sound, technically capable, and competitive in price and quality. strategic community investments The project aims to improve living standards by investing in sustainable health, educa.tion, and agriculture projects. As part of our National Content Plan, we are commit.ted to spending $20 million on strategic community investment projects during the construction phase and $5 million a year during the production phase. Through the ExxonMobil Malaria Initiative, the project collaborated with the Rotarians Against Malaria Program on logistics, planning, and bed-net distribution. Project sites were also added to the National Malaria Surveillance Program and plans are under development for enhanced malaria diagnostics at relevant community clinics. More than 1000 commu.nity members have been tested for malaria and were treated if positive. We are also working with Medicines for Malaria Venture to fund clinical trials of new anti-malarial drugs in Papua New Guinea. 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 43 Norway, and the United Kingdom participated through online tools, national and regional competitions, and classroom events. Nearly 1200 students completed the online quiz based on general knowledge and our Outlook for Energy: A View to 2030. focusing on math and science in the united states. Demand for science, technol.ogy, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) professionals is rapidly expanding, yet fewer and fewer students are choosing to prepare for these important career tracks. In 2010, we continued to encourage students to study math and science through programs such as the National Math and Science Initiative (NMSI) and the Harris Foundation. Through UTeach, Mickelson ExxonMobil Teachers Academies, and the Sally Ride Science Academy brought to you by ExxonMobil, we continue to give teachers the skills necessary to motivate students to pursue careers in math and science. For details about each of these programs, visit our Web site. We also introduced new partnerships and ini.tiatives to further advance math and science in the United States: • Change the Equation: In 2010, Rex W. Tillerson, chairman and CEO, joined the board of Change the Equation, a CEO-led initiative launched by President Obama to encourage STEM literacy. • NMSI Young Leaders Program: This program, founded by ExxonMobil and Fortune magazine, seeks to address the gender gap in STEM fields by matching female college juniors majoring in STEM subjects with female executives working in these fields at Fortune 500 companies. In 2010, 22 pairs of executives and students participated in the mentoring program. promoting revenue transparency • Sally Ride Science Academy: The Academy focuses on curriculum augmentation to make math and science more relevant, especially with young girls. In 2010, we moved from the pilot phase to conduct three academies, bringing the total number of educators trained to about 400. They have since trained more than 850 additional teachers. We continued to support diversity-based education programs such as the Hispanic Heritage Foundation, National Society of Black Engineers, Society of Women Engineers, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, among others. Employee volunteerism and giving In 2010, more than 24,800 ExxonMobil employees, retirees, and their families world.wide donated more than 779,500 volunteer hours to 5500 charitable organizations in 43 countries through company-sponsored volunteer programs. Of this, 12,500 partici.pants donated more than 179,400 hours to more than 1200 organizations in countries outside the United States. Employees and retirees donated $38 million through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief, and employee giving programs. When combined with corporate donations, ExxonMobil—together with our employees and retirees—contributed $237 million to community investments around the world. On the Web: ExxonMobil Malaria Initiative exxonmobil.com/health Women’s Economic Opportunity Initiative exxonmobil.com/womensinitiative 2010 Community Investments by Geographic Region (millions of dollars) Worldwide total* $237.1 United States $154.8 Africa $33.9 Russia/Caspian $14.0 Canada $13.2 Asia Pacific $7.9 Middle East $7.7 Europe $3.7 Latin America $1.9 *Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and XTO donations and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief, and employee giving programs. Worldwide giving exxonmobil.com/contributions Global citizenship stories exxonmobil.com/globalstories Math and science exxonmobil.com/mathandscience Change the Equation changetheequation.org National Math and Science Initiative nationalmathandscience.org Sci-Tech Challenge http://scitech.ja-ye.org Transparency exxonmobil.com/transparency With good governance and accountability, the value generated from natural resources can provide a better standard of living and increased opportunities for the citizens of host countries. As part of our commitment to honest and ethical behavior, ExxonMobil is an active participant in transparency and anti-corruption programs. Transparency ini.tiatives are designed to increase disclosure of government revenues from the production of oil, gas, and minerals, with the goal of greater accountability by governments on how they spend revenues. We support initiatives such as the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), the Group of Eight (G-8) Transparency Initiative, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. EITI is a unique collabora.tion among governments, companies, civil society, institutional investors, and inter.national organizations. Together, we share the goal of implementing global principles that support improved governance through the verification and disclosure of extractive industry payments to governments and gov.ernment revenue from those companies while protecting confidential company information. We provide assistance to our newest partners as they seek to implement greater transpar.ency. At the same time, we recognize that transparency initiatives can only be sustainable when national governments have owner.ship and responsibility. In 2010, Iraq joined EITI as a candidate country and ExxonMobil will serve on the Iraqi EITI Council. In Papua New Guinea, our project has the potential to boost the country’s gross domestic product and provide a catalyst for employment and further industry development. Project team members from Esso Highlands Limited are active members of Transparency International and acknowledge the government’s bilateral Memorandum of Understanding. Over the past several years, ExxonMobil has been active in the multistakeholder committee working to implement the EITI process in Equatorial Guinea. As part of that effort, Equatorial Guinea EITI published its first revenue report in 2010. However, Equatorial Guinea did not complete its required validation within the prescribed time period and was delisted by the EITI Board last year. 44 exxonmobil.com Community Engagement and Human Rights hiGhLiGhts 95  2  75%  pre-construction  Voluntary Principles  of private security  surveys finalized in  briefing sessions  personnel contracts  Papua New Guinea  conducted with security  enhanced to include  forces in Nigeria  provisions to address  human rights concerns  perforMance overview  what we said in 2009 • continue deployment of security and human rights training to appropriate staff • further implement our Framework on Security and Human Rights through self assessments and other processes • engage in international dialogues such as the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the fund for peace, and consultations with John ruggie, united nations special representative on business and human rights • continue to integrate human rights con cerns into existing business operations what we did in 2010 • continued to provide security and human rights training in priority countries • distributed security and human rights materials through regular, systematic communications • participated in several social and human rights conferences and working groups, as well as consultations with u.n. special representative ruggie • evaluated upstream socioeconomic management processes and began con solidating for consistency • conducted an in depth assessment of Framework implementation in papua new Guinea what we plan to do • assess company policies and processes relative to u.n. special representative ruggie s final report • complete human rights training in priority countries and assess follow up needs for those who received training in the last three years • develop a computer based human rights training module for efficient, wider availability • update the Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 45 ExxonMobil’s community relationships are an essential element of our global business. The quality of the relationships we develop with local communities has a direct impact on the long-term success of our activities. Community impacts and relationships Our approach to managing local community impacts consists of several core elements, including adhering to corporate policies and expectations (see page 22), applying national laws and universally recognized principles, assessing risks and opportunities, engaging with external groups (see page 8), and build.ing local economic capacity (see page 39). At ExxonMobil, we call this socioeconomic management. This area encompasses several distinct topics, including human rights, labor and workplace rights, economic development, cultural heritage, land use, social and environmental considerations, treatment of communities and indigenous peoples, security, and relationships with host-country governments. For major upstream projects, the ExxonMobil Development Company applies its Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard. As project teams apply our Operations Integrity Management System, the Standard provides guidance specific to key socioeco.nomic issues that should be identified and addressed throughout the upstream resource development life cycle, including: • Consultation with relevant communi.ties, government officials, and appropriate stakeholder organizations to share infor.mation, solicit feedback, and respond to expressed concerns; • Identification of potential issues includ.ing, but not limited to, the management of cultural and heritage properties, interaction with indigenous or vulnerable populations, involuntary resettlement, compensation, employment and training, and the procure.ment of goods and services; and, • Development of appropriate prevention (or enhancement), control, mitigation, and monitoring strategies related to potential socioeconomic impacts. In 2010, the upstream companies formed a socioeconomics task force to assess current processes for planning and implementing socioeconomic management programs in new ventures. The task force developed recommendations to standardize and inte.grate approaches, tools, and organization into existing business systems. One outcome was the decision to include Socioeconomic Principles to guide our approach in several social areas. We believe further refinement of the Management Standard will help our contractors, partners, and employees to better execute upstream projects consistently with our company values and, as such, help us maintain our license to operate. impact assessment and mitigation. We recognize our activities can impact host communities and other stakeholders. We strive to identify and avoid or mitigate negative impacts and enhance positive outcomes. At the start of major projects, an Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) is conducted to assess the potential impacts of our activi.ties throughout the project and operations life cycle. We consult with the public during the ESHIA process and integrate results into decision making, including impact avoidance and mitigation plans, and in some cases, modifying aspects of the project design or execution plan. Consultation and engagement Wherever ExxonMobil operates, we work with stakeholders through consultation and act with respect toward individuals with diverse cultures. Our Best Practices in External Affairs (BPEA) initiative focuses on building positive external relationships and is integrated with our Operations Integrity Management System (see page 18). BPEA is our strategic planning and management tool for external affairs, which ensures implementation of consistent community awareness programs, including information provision, dialogue, and collabo.ration with local communities. We believe engagement is a two-way com.munication and recognize the need for local populations to be able to voice and resolve concerns related to a project without fear of retribution. Our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard includes provisions for establishing a grievance mechanism where appropriate. While our BPEA engage.ments provide an important means to hear and address community concerns, griev.ance mechanisms provide a systematic and transparent process for local people to raise concerns, which can be addressed by the company within an appropriate time frame. indigenous peoples and cultural heritage. We value cultural heritage and customs in the communities where we operate and incorporate these considerations into project planning, design, execution, and ongoing operations. The Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas (PNG LNG) project area comprises a rich and diverse cultural mix of some 13 ethnic groups, 46 language groups, and more than 400 clans. Most of these communities rely primarily on subsistence-oriented produc.tion, maintain a close physical and spiritual relationship to ancestral territories, consider themselves as distinct lingo-cultural groups, and retain customary social and political insti.tutions. The unique cultural heritage of these groups needs to be preserved for the benefit of current and future generations. As part of the PNG LNG project’s pre-con.struction surveys, cultural heritage specialists conduct detailed studies in consultation with communities to identify areas and features of cultural and historic significance. This impor.tant phase of activity is conducted before approval being granted for project access to potential worksites. In some cases, the project facilities were re-designed to avoid features. To date, pre-construction surveys and reports have been finalized for 95 sites, and third-party experts have identified more than 1400 mitigation measures. Once a site is approved and access granted, pre-construction surveys are again conducted before work is allowed to commence on-site. These surveys involve assessing each work.site, often with landowners, to further identify sites of significance such as burial grounds, sacred waterways, or areas containing artifacts. In populated areas, surveys include discussions with local people who are knowl.edgeable of the area. For known sites, the focus of the Cultural Heritage Management Plan is twofold: to avoid those sites which are to be protected from disturbance, and to establish the process for the compensation, management, clearance, and salvage of sites that are authorized by the government for dis.turbance. We work closely with the landowner or clan to determine appropriate mitigation measures, including customary ceremonies. In addition to known cultural heritage sites, construction activities can disturb or alter unrecorded archaeological finds within the project work area. The project has agreed on a protocol for managing the preservation and appropriate treatment of these finds with the Papua New Guinea National Museum and Art Gallery. The protocol deems that, following analysis and documentation, any material found is transferred to the gallery. 46 exxonmobil.com Land use and resettlement. We respect property rights in the countries in which we operate. We strive to achieve free, prior, and informed consultation of impacted communi.ties before we implement new operations. We seek to avoid resettlement through project design, and where resettlement is unavoidable, we seek to ensure appropriate restoration of livelihoods of displaced persons. As a result of the PNG LNG project, we are currently engaging in resettlement activi.ties. Resettlement may be necessary due to physical or economic displacement, involving the loss of shelter, assets, income streams, or means of livelihood resulting from land acquisition or obstructed access to economic resources (land, water, and forest). The PNG LNG project has made efforts to avoid resettlement activities wherever possible. However, when necessary, resettlement activities are conducted in accordance with international best practice, as defined by the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability and the laws of Papua New Guinea. The project’s goal for resettlement is to give displaced people the opportunity to, at a minimum, restore their livelihoods and standards of living. For communities where resettlement is deemed to be necessary, Resettlement Action Plans were developed based on local needs and circumstances, and in consultation with affected people. Customary land owner.ship is perhaps the single most important feature of Papua New Guinean society. The complex portfolio of land rights defines social identity, group membership, and access to resources such as forest, power, and ritual status. This unique social organization pres.ents some challenges with resettlement and often requires a case-by-case approach. For project-affected households, a non.profit Papua New Guinean law practice acts as an independent advisor with respect to their rights, responsibilities, and options concerning resettlement in the context of both national Papua New Guinean legisla.tion and the project’s plans and provisions. This assists households to better under.stand the resettlement process, particularly the valuation, compensation, and assistance options. The resettlement process also has a strong monitoring and evaluation component to achieve the project’s goal of livelihood restoration. A total of 13 project locations were identified where resettlement is deemed to be necessary. Respecting human rights We respect human rights in our operations, not just because doing so fosters a stable business environment, but more importantly, because it is the right and responsible thing to do. We continue to participate in the consultation process outlined by John Ruggie, the United Nations Special Representative on Business and Human Rights. Professor Ruggie’s 2008 report set forth a widely accepted policy framework for managing business and human rights challenges based on distinct yet complementary responsibilities for govern.ments and corporations as well as effective remedies in cases of abuse. The “protect, respect, remedy” framework outlines the duty of governments to protect against human rights abuses by third parties, the corporate responsibility to respect human rights, and the need for improved access to effective remedy mechanisms. Under this framework, the corporate responsibility to respect human rights involves due diligence, having policies in place, conducting impact assessments, and establishing mechanisms to track performance. As discussed in this section, ExxonMobil’s approach is consistent with the basic components of this frame.work. We look forward to reviewing Professor Ruggie’s final recommendations in 2011 that offer further guidance on how corporations can put the framework into practice. Labor policies and practices. Our com.mitment to human rights is supported by the policies in our Standards of Business Conduct, which are consistent with the spirit and intent of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labor Organization (ILO). Our Statement on Labor and the Workplace articulates our support for the principles of the ILO Declaration, namely the elimination of child labor, forced labor, and workplace discrimination, and the recognition of the right to freedom of association and collec.tive bargaining. All employees are required to comply with our policies. We seek business partners that observe similar standards. Our standard contract language requires adherence to all national laws and regulations. We prescreen suppliers and mandate compliance with all applicable laws regarding business practices and human rights. All requests for quotations include clauses relating to the prohibition of forced or child labor and the payment of wages in accordance with all local laws. providing human rights training. Our human rights training is based on ExxonMobil guidelines, practices, and priorities, and is informed by guidance from the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association and other sources. Training materials are periodically updated to reflect new develop.ments in the human rights arena as well as to incorporate feedback from trainees. The training focuses primarily on employee awareness, company policies and approaches, company resources, and our commitment to respecting human rights. Each session also includes information on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the requirements of our Framework on Security and Human Rights, and the status of implementation of the Framework in the given country. Human rights and security training has been completed in 16 countries over the past three years. In 2010, we continued to provide dedicated human rights training to key affiliates and staff, including lead country managers (LCMs). Human rights is a recurring compo.nent in both quarterly LCM communications and new LCM training. Following an initial three-year implementation period, we have nearly completed training sessions in all priority countries identified on the basis of a variety of criteria, including the specific level of security threat, acute and dynamic issues, and external nongovernmental organiza.tion (NGO) ratings. We are now assessing progress in each of the countries to deter.mine follow-up actions. Training will also be provided on a wider spectrum to employees via a computer-based training module or other means. Addressing security concerns ExxonMobil is committed to safeguard.ing company personnel and property in a manner that respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. Framework on Security and Human Rights. Since 2002, we have been an active partici.pant in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, a forum for discussion and information-sharing among extractive industry companies, governments, and NGOs. To help implement the Principles, ExxonMobil’s Framework on Security and Human Rights provides expectations for our majority-owned operating affiliates. The Framework includes guidance on working with host government security personnel, memoranda of understanding regarding host government-assigned security person.nel, approaches for interacting with private security providers, and reporting and record-keeping templates. Currently, 75 percent of our private security personnel contracts have been enhanced to include provisions to address human rights concerns. Human rights is a priority in our Nigerian operations. There have been security chal.lenges and increasing tension in oil production communities in the country. To ensure the safety of our personnel and the communities around our operations, we actively advocate respect for human rights by government secu.rity personnel, as well as by private security providers who secure our assets. In 2010, our security team organized two briefing sessions on the Principles for host government security forces assigned by the Nigerian government to our facilities. Similar training will be con.ducted in 2011 as well. In Papua New Guinea, our project team works closely with contractors and the com.munity on security issues. Project security challenges are systematically addressed in accordance with the Security Plan, which is regularly monitored and reviewed. A Security and Community Affairs workshop, held in mid-2010, provided valuable insight to all parties for maintaining a consistent approach 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 47 to addressing security concerns in Papua New Guinea, and reinforced the integration of these issues. Police deployed in support of the project have undergone training in the Principles by trainers approved by the International Red Cross. Complaints will be fully reported in accordance with the executed memoran.dum of understanding and the Principles. Investigations will be led by the Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary Internal Investigation Unit with oversight from the Papua New Guinea government ombudsman. On the Web: Human rights policies and practices exxonmobil.com/humanrights Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project pnglng.com 