Chairman’s letter At ExxonMobil, we strive to deliver superior results while providing products and services that are essential to the health and welfare of billions of people around the world. How we achieve these results is as important as the results themselves. That is why we are committed to operating our businesses in a responsible and sustainable manner, supplying high-quality products, working to minimize environmental impacts and supporting the communities where we live and work. These efforts are outlined in our latest Sustainability Report and its companion publication, the Energy & Carbon Summary, which showcases efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Few would disagree that one of the most urgent societal challenges we face today is addressing the risks of climate change. How we meet the world’s demand for the energy necessary for economic growth while mitigating the long-term impact on our environment is key to our sustainable future. We are making progress in this area through a variety of actions including enhancing energy efficiency across our operations, improving leak detection and repair and increasing cogeneration capacity at manufacturing facilities. As a result of these efforts, we expect to meet our goal to decrease methane emissions by 15 percent and flaring by 25 percent by 2020, compared to 2016 levels. We recently outlined a new five-year plan to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our operations in support of the goals of the Paris Agreement. We plan to reduce the intensity of our operated upstream greenhouse gas emissions by 15 to 20 percent by 2025, compared to 2016 levels. This plan will be supported by a 40 to 50 percent decrease in methane intensity, and a 35 to 45 percent decrease in flaring intensity across our global operations. Ultimately, we aim for industry-leading greenhouse gas performance across our businesses by 2030. We also plan to align with the World Bank’s initiative to eliminate routine flaring by 2030 – a continuation of the strict flaring protocols we adopted for our U.S. unconventional operations in 2019 – and we proposed a model regulatory framework for our industry to mitigate methane emissions from new and existing oil and gas operations. The steps we are taking to reduce emissions reflect ExxonMobil’s commitment to addressing the risks of climate change. We also continue to invest in lower-emission technologies, such as carbon capture and advanced biofuels, which are necessary for society to achieve its ambition for net zero emissions by 2050. Other key dimensions of sustainability performance include: • Taking action to help society address plastic waste in the environment by working on advanced recycling solutions and having no reportable plastic pellet losses for two consecutive years; • Achieving a historically low rate of high-consequence injuries, extending a multiyear improvement trend • Increasing representation of women executives by 69 percent since 2009; • Increasing representation of minority executives in the United States by 80 percent since 2009; • Contributing more than $250 million in communities worldwide to address key needs such as health care, disaster relief, education and economic development; • Expanding human rights training with more than 1,800 employees across 49 countries completing training since 2015. These actions demonstrate our commitment to responsibly and sustainably running our businesses and the resilience and excellence of our people who respond and adapt to new challenges. That adaptability was critically important in responding to the COVID-19 global pandemic. I am proud of the way our company and our people delivered assistance to governments, health care personnel and first responders around the world while safely providing an uninterrupted supply of vital energy products. We boosted production of isopropyl alcohol, the key ingredient in hand sanitizer, and polypropylene, critical for the manufacture of medical masks and surgical gowns. One of our U.S. manufacturing facilities even temporarily reconfigured its operations to directly manufacture hand sanitizer to meet increased demand. Further details on our response to the pandemic, our overall sustainability efforts and our work to manage the risks of climate change are included in our Sustainability Report and Energy & Carbon Summary. I hope you find these reports useful and informative in understanding more about ExxonMobil’s positive contribution to society. Thank you for your interest, and we welcome your feedback. Sincerely, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ExxonMobil and sustainability ExxonMobil is committed to producing the energy and chemical products that are essential to modern life and economic development, in a way that helps protect people, the environment and the communities where we operate. This includes mitigating the risks of climate change. Meeting this dual challenge will be even more important in the coming decades as growing populations and global economic expansion are expected to drive energy demand higher. This report provides a summary of the key dimensions of sustainability: our environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance. 2019 global operations ExxonMobil maintains a diverse portfolio of resources, projects and assets across our businesses. PRODUCTION UPSTREAM: We are one of the largest producers of oil and natural gas, and have an active presence in 45 countries where we explore, develop, produce and/or market hydrocarbons. oil-equivalent barrels of net oil 4.0M and gas production per day† Natural Gas Natural Gas Liquids Oil REFINING + SUPPLY DOWNSTREAM: We are one of the largest integrated refiners and manufacturers of fuels and lubricants, as well as a leading marketer of petroleum products and finished lubricants. We have refining and lubricant blending facilities in 22 countries. barrels of petroleum product 5.5M sales per day‡ Asphalt Chemical Feedstocks Diesel Fuel Oil Gasoline CHEMICAL CHEMICAL: ExxonMobil is one of the largest chemical companies. We have manufacturing operations in 12 countries and a unique portfolio of high-performance products. 26.5M tonnes of chemical prime product sales‡ Adhesives & sealants Agriculture Automotive Building & construction Compounding Stakeholder engagement ExxonMobil works to foster mutual understanding, trust and cooperation with stakeholder groups on sustainability topics. We interact with a variety of stakeholders via community meetings, digital and social media, and one-on-one discussions. Maintaining an open dialogue provides opportunities to listen to concerns, discuss approaches and share plans. Across stakeholder groups, from communities and nongovernmental organizations to employees and shareholders, we continue to see broad interest in our environmental, social and governance performance. The table below highlights our key stakeholder groups, their typical areas of interest and our engagement approach. Stakeholder groups  Common areas of interest  Engagement approach  Communities  Air emissions Environmental performance Community investments Grievance management Economic development Human rights Education Operational impacts Employment opportunities  Communicate with local residents in areas where we operate through direct correspondence and group meetings Dedicate personnel responsible for community engagement, as well as receiving, tracking, analyzing and responding to    potential community concerns Establish channels for communities to provide input or seek information Use social media platforms to share project updates Contributed $253 million to communities around the world in 2019  Customers  Developing innovative Supply chain management products and technology Sustainability and Safety environmental performance  Collaborate with our customers to identify potential solutions to sustainability issues Cultivate an open dialogue with our customers and educate them about the market-based approach to sustainable solutions Provide customer service contact numbers and support marketing teams in responding to customer questions  Employees  Benefits Professional development Diversity and inclusion Safety Health and wellness Workplace security  Support the professional development of our employees globally Invest in worker health by providing voluntary health programs Share feedback and raise topics of interest through managers, internal surveys, company forums and a confidential hotline Support employee-led resource groups that foster a culture of diversity and inclusion Use social media platforms to share information  Governments  Energy supply and security Safety Environmental performance Taxes and other revenue sources Climate change Human rights Employment opportunities Health and wellness Ethics and integrity Diversity and inclusion Impact assessments Education Local supplier development  Engage host governments to maintain the safety and security of operations while respecting human rights Monitor and participate in transparency initiatives in countries where we operate Meet with representatives and leaders to provide information and insights on policies that may affect our business Work to support responsible economic, energy and environmental policies and help identify solutions  Nongovernmental organizations  Climate change Transparency Environmental performance Economic development Human rights Health Social issues Education  Collaborate on technical projects of mutual interest Conduct one-on-one meetings Engage in corporate and foundation philanthropic activities with nongovernmental organizations Participate in conference events to exchange views, information and expertise Participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives to enable progress on key policy issues Partner with grantees to improve health, education and job opportunities in local communities  Shareholders  Board composition Governance practices Business performance Policy engagement Climate change Risk management Environmental performance  Engage directly with shareholders to understand input and feedback, including shareholder proposals Disseminate information to our shareholders through SEC filings, investor days, investor presentations and other publications Enable engagement between non-employee directors and shareholders, and facilitate communication from any interested    party to non-employee directors via our corporate governance page Host annual shareholder meetings to share information on company highlights and answer questions from shareholders  Suppliers  Local business opportunities Expectations for suppliers Local supplier development Diversity and inclusion Operational integrity Supplier training Safety Human rights Environmental performance  Hold sessions with suppliers to provide information on our safety, environmental and human rights practices Participate in organizations dedicated to building local supplier capabilities Share our supplier, vendor and contractor expectations Conduct regular supplier audits and anti-corruption due diligence in relevant countries Support U.S. businesses owned by traditionally underrepresented groups through our U.S. supplier diversity database and supplier forums  