Safety, Health, and the WorkplaceHIGHLIGHTS 44%  4800  56  of management and  attendees at global  technical scholarships  professional new hires  contractor safety forums  awarded and 1091 global  in 2011 were women  held in 33 countries  internships and co-op  during 2011  assignments sponsored  PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW  What we said in 2010 • Learn from personnel and process safety metrics for continuous improvement • Deploy recommendations from the Personnel Safety Study • Evaluate deployment of OIMS enhance ments at the assessable unit level • Conclude cross-industry efforts to understand precursors for serious injuries and fatalities and develop effective prevention strategies . Expand the Culture of Health initiative across the United States • Identify the best candidates for an increasingly diverse workforce through practical work experience, scholarships, and internships What we did in 2011 • Deployed recommendations from the Personnel Safety Study • Implemented and evaluated OIMS enhancements • Started implementing OIMS at XTO Energy Inc. (XTO) • Concluded cross-industry research work on serious injury and fatality prevention • Established a Steering Committee for the Control of Infectious Diseases • Hired 2100 global professional employees, sponsored 1091 global internships and co op assignments, and awarded 56 technical scholarships in the United States What we plan to do • Continue to learn from personnel and process safety performance metrics to help achieve our goal that Nobody Gets Hurt • Pilot workshops and launch OIMS Leadership Academies • Enhance the safety, health, and work place systems at XTO • Continue emphasis on Actively Caring and Approaching Others • Follow up on results of cross industry research on serious injury and fatality prevention • Continue to attract, develop, and retain a premier workforce from the broadest possible pool of talent The safety of our employees, contractors, and communities is the core of our commitment to operations integrity. We remain steadfast in our goal that Nobody Gets Hurt. Safety, security, and health management Excellence in safety, security, and health in the workplace is a core value for our company. We manage the risks associated with our operations through the implementation of our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS). Every ExxonMobil employee and contractor accepts safety as a job requirement, whether working at a desk or on an oil platform. Personnel safety While our safety performance remains strong in the industry, in 2011, our combined employee and contractor workforce lost-time incident per.formance declined. This outcome reinforces our steadfast commitment to thoroughly investigate the underlying causes of incidents and focus relentlessly on effective risk management. In 2011, XTO safety data were combined with data for the rest of ExxonMobil’s operations, which introduced a basis change. XTO is in the process of implementing OIMS and is committed to achieving solid safety perfor.mance. It took ExxonMobil many years to develop its safety culture and to embed OIMS throughout its operations. We are conﬁ dent that XTO will continuously improve perfor.mance as implementation proceeds. The safety performance of legacy ExxonMobil assets (excluding those of XTO), through year-end 2011, did not meet our expectations. As a result, we have increased emphasis on the prevention of serious incidents, which can lead to lost-time injuries and fatalities. We continue to set high expectations for safety performance across our operations for all workers—contractors and employees. As always, our goal is to provide and maintain a workplace where Nobody Gets Hurt. We know this is achievable, and will continue to work toward that standard. It is with deep regret that we report that nine workers were fatally injured in 2011 in connection with ExxonMobil operations. We thoroughly investigated each incident, determined root causes, and identiﬁ ed steps to prevent similar events in the future. During 2011, we began to apply learnings from cross-industry research efforts to study improved approaches for the prevention of serious injuries and fatalities. Through these studies, ExxonMobil gained new insights into more effective prevention strategies that focus on identifying underlying causes and expanding data analysis associated with incidents and near-misses that have potential serious outcomes. Personnel safety study. As a result of the personnel safety study concluded in 2010, we are enhancing our leadership training through the development and piloting of new OIMS Leadership Academies. During 2011, we oriented global safety aware.ness efforts around “Actively Caring and Approaching Others”—an integral charac.teristic of an established and effective safety culture where all workers take ownership and accountability for their own and each other’s personal safety. Workers are empowered and encouraged to ask questions or to comment when another worker—whether peer or super-visor—appears to be at risk. Workers also learn how to constructively receive input from others, knowing it is intended to keep them from harm. Contractor safety. From building pipelines to working on offshore platforms, thousands of contractors support our operations every day. At many of the projects that ExxonMobil manages, the majority of workers at the project site are contractors. When prequalifying contractors, we evaluate safety performance as a key criterion (see case study, page 36). In 2011, ExxonMobil Development Company conducted a series of global contractor safety forums for approximately 4800 attendees in 33 countries. The main theme of this effort was Safety Excellence through Visible Leadership and each forum featured a series of presenta.tions intended to help contractors consider new ways to lead with safety practices. Planning is underway for another series of contractor safety forums in 2012. Process safety. Process safety is a frame.work for managing the integrity of operating systems by applying good design principles, engineering, and operating and maintenance practices. Effective process safety manage.ment prevents the uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons and other hazardous sub.stances to avoid signiﬁcant incidents with potential for serious injuries and fatalities, widespread environmental impacts, and property damage. Our approach focuses on reducing risks and incidents through the ﬂawless execution of OIMS. We subscribe to industry standards—the American Petroleum Institute’s Recommended Practice 754 and International Association of Oil & Gas Producers No. 456—which deﬁ ne process safety events and use a process safety incident triangle to represent events from Tier 1 through Tier 4. During 2011, we had 71 Tier 1 process safety events. Incident analysis indicates that human factors and procedures were the contributing focus stems from ExxonMobil’s desire to eliminate all incidents and ensure Nobody Gets Hurt. Lost-Time Incident Rate1 (incidents per 200,000 work hours) ExxonMobil employees ExxonMobil contractors API U.S. petroleum industry employee benchmark 0.38 040506 07 0809 10 11 Total Recordable Incident Rate1 (incidents per 200,000 work hours) ExxonMobil employees ExxonMobil contractors API U.S. petroleum industry employee benchmark 1.2 0.6 040506 07 0809 10 11 1Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information available at the time of publication. PROCESS SAFETY TRIANGLE Process safety events fall into two categories: Tier 1 and Tier 2. Tier 3 represents process safety “near-misses” and Tier 4 represents leading performance measures, such as on-time maintenance performance. The lower tiers are measured and tracked to prevent events in Tiers 1 and 2. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE Effective emergency preparedness is depen.dent on competent response teams. To develop and practice emergency response strategies, we establish Emergency Support Groups comprising representatives from business lines; human resources; law; safety, security, health, and environment; public affairs; and other technical advi.sors. To respond quickly and effectively to operational incidents, we routinely test these trained teams on a range of possible sce.narios, including simulated product spills, ﬁres, explosions, natural disasters, and security incidents. Every site conducts emergency drills in accordance with regulatory requirements and OIMS guidelines. These drills range from routine ﬁre drills to full-scale exercises. We operate in some parts of the world without clear emergency response require.ments. In these cases, we apply global best practices to determine the frequency of emergency drills. Each year, we conduct at least one comprehensive drill in each of our operating regions. Inside a comprehensive response drill. We conducted a comprehensive drill at our Sakhalin, Russia, facility in September 2011. The drill included 230 employees, element for nearly half of these events. Our emphasis on process safety management across the company remains constant, as we investigate, analyze, and learn from these and lower severity Tier 2, 3, and 4 events and indicators. We focus on best practices in design, mechanical integrity, and upgrades using advanced technologies, and we train employees in process safety and effective procedures. Product stewardship and product safety ExxonMobil works to minimize risks and impacts associated with the manufacture, use, and disposal of our products. We con.sider product stewardship issues in all stages, including inception, design and development, manufacture and storage, transport and distri.bution, marketing, use, and disposal. As part of product stewardship, we assess safety, health, and environmental aspects as well as compliance with product safety legislation, both where our products are made and in their intended markets. OIMS and other management systems help ensure compliance with product stewardship regula.tions in more than 150 countries. Our Product Stewardship Information Management contractors, and specialists from at least four countries, and lasted two days. During emer.gency drills, participants run through realistic scenarios including real-time decisions and interaction with local authorities. The Sakhalin drill involved deploying several marine vessels for a simulated spill cleanup, modeling the trajectory of the spill, and conducting simu.lated dispersant application with helicopters. For the purpose of simulation, workers trav.eled to the location of the drill as they would in an actual situation. Several representatives from various Russian regulatory authori.ties participated. The exercise conﬁ rmed our readiness to respond and helped us identify improvements to the Sakhalin Oil Spill Response Plan. Response in action—Yellowstone River in Montana. On July 1, 2011, ExxonMobil Pipeline Company (EMPCo) experienced a breach in its Silvertip Pipeline resulting in the release of an estimated 1509 barrels of crude oil into Yellowstone River near Laurel, Montana. EMPCo immediately began implementing its emergency response plans, drawing upon local resources at the ExxonMobil Billings Reﬁnery as well as experts from across the country. A Uniﬁed Command Center, led by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency System (PSIMS) applies common global processes and a global computer system to capture and communicate information on the safe handling, transport, use, and disposal of our products. ExxonMobil Biomedical Sciences, Inc. (EMBSI) coordinates with each of our business lines to monitor, advise, and evaluate a growing number of new regulatory requirements on our products. EMBSI assesses human and environmental hazards along with risks of our products and their components, and develops hazard com.munication documents. In addition, ExxonMobil toxicologists, industrial hygienists, epidemiolo.gists, physicians, and environmental scientists work to continually improve our understanding of occupational and environmental health. Customer communication is a large part of product stewardship. During development and deployment, we identify hazard and risk management practices—including appropri.ate uses, potential health and environmental effects, personal protection and exposure controls, ﬁrst aid measures, and disposal considerations—and communicate this information to customers via Safety Data Sheets, product data sheets, labels, and technical guidance. We tailor our product safety warnings to comply with local (EPA) and including representatives from the State of Montana, was established. More than 1000 people were involved in the response and cleanup effort includ.ing ExxonMobil’s North America Regional Response Team, the Clean Harbors and Emergency Responder oil spill response organizations, and additional contractors. EMPCo worked closely with the EPA and the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) to ensure cleanup goals and objectives were clearly deﬁ ned, and subsequently completed as outlined by the Uniﬁed Command. Work now contin.ues under the direction of the MDEQ and has now transitioned into reclamation and remediation activity. This includes a com.prehensive soil and water monitoring and sampling program. At the Laurel Crossing, EMPCo installed new pipeline approximately 60 feet below the river bottom. In addition, new pipeline was installed 30 feet or more below the river bottom near the shore at the Rock Creek and Clarks Fork crossings. EMPCo takes full responsibility for the incident and cleanup, and continues to work cooperatively with all agencies involved in investigating the spill. regulations; where product safety regula.tions do not exist, we apply responsible standards. In 2011, we distributed more than 300,000 Safety Data Sheets to customers in more than 130 languages. Life cycle assessments. ExxonMobil Chemical Company follows the International Organization for Standardization (ISO 14040:2006 and 14044:2006) in develop.ing life cycle assessments (LCAs). Two LCA examples include the assessment of our High Barrier Metallyte™ oriented polypropyl.ene ﬁlms (OPP) relative to aluminum foil, a product used for similar applications. It dis.played lower energy consumption, reduced waste, and lower greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Another example involves our metallocene polyethylene (mPE) resins used in packaging construction products, such as mortar and cement mix, relative to paper. The analysis showed that mPE resins have several environmental advantages, including require.ments for fewer raw material inputs. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Customer life cycle assessment One of our customers specializing in industrial packaging, NORDFOLIEN GmbH, approached ExxonMobil for help on an LCA to understand the environmental impact of polyethylene versus paper packaging. We developed a charter for the collabora.tion and agreed that ExxonMobil Chemical would conduct the analysis. An indepen.dent third-party external panel reviewed the LCA for completeness and transparency. The results showed that polyethylene sacks had signiﬁcant environmental beneﬁ ts over paper alternatives, as they are lighter, have lower energy and GHG proﬁles, and are more durable, minimizing product loss. We plan to continue engaging with our custom.ers on other LCAs. Workplace security Protecting worker and community safety also means ensuring security and protec.tion of information. Our security programs are designed to meet the challenges of the diverse locations where we operate. At ExxonMobil, Security is Everybody’s Business. In 2011, we focused on enhanced security countermeasures for people, assets, and information in higher-threat locations where ExxonMobil operates. We also con.tinued implementation of risk assessment processes to identify and implement asset-speciﬁc security enhancements. For more information about security at ExxonMobil, see page 45. Employee health ExxonMobil provides support programs and services to help our employees live healthier lives. We consider workforce and community health issues as part of our project planning, using tools like Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assessments (ESHIAs) (see page 18). We develop prevention programs and health care services to respond to emerging health issues in a timely manner. During 2011, we established a new infectious disease com.mittee to monitor and address emerging disease-related issues. Culture of Health. ExxonMobil’s Culture of Health is our U.S. site-based health and well.ness program. It provides a broad, systematic approach to health promotion activities in the workplace, including resources for ExxonMobil employees and family members to achieve personal health goals. After testing this program at two work sites, we expanded the program to all U.S. sites in 2011. Culture of Health offers a state-of-the-art health portal with a wellness library, meal plan.ners, and wellness and ﬁtness trackers. The program also includes on-site biometric screenings, annual health assessments to detect potential health risks, and telephone-based lifestyle coaching. More than 13,000 individuals participated in this program in 2011. Worksite-based program components are being added throughout 2012. Malaria Control Program. Malaria costs the African continent an average of $12 billion in lost gross domestic product annually and impacts household incomes through lost productivity and healthcare expenditures. The locations where we operate in Africa and parts of Asia Paciﬁc are no excep.tion. ExxonMobil’s comprehensive Malaria Control Program covers both employees and contractors working in malaria-prone areas. It includes awareness campaigns, mosquito bite prevention tools, and anti-malaria medi.cation, and promotes early diagnosis and treatment to ﬁght malaria. We track employee and contractor incidences of malaria in eight countries with upstream operations. In 2011, 11 malaria cases were reported out of the thousands of nonimmune workers located in or visiting endemic areas. To learn about our efforts to eradicate global malaria in the communities where we operate, see page 42. StopAIDS. Our workplace HIV/AIDS program, StopAIDS, combines educational programs with access to community-based care and treatment to keep healthy workers disease-free, and to educate HIV-positive workers on SUPPORTING POLIO ERADICATION IN ANGOLA The World Health Organization has made great strides toward eradicating polio; only a handful of countries still report active cases. In Angola, one of the biggest barriers to achieving eradication is access to remote areas. The Angolan Ministry of Health received a $600,000 grant from the Block 15 consortium operated by Esso Angola to purchase four-wheel.drive vehicles, motorcycles, and vaccine storage equipment for health ofﬁ cials and trained community health volunteers to vaccinate Angolans in isolated parts of the country. Angola reported only ﬁ ve cases of polio in 2011. To complement our polio vaccine support, we also provided a $1 million grant to the Ministry of Health’s vaccination program in four provinces. Implemented in partner.ship with the Angolan Red Cross, more than 200,000 children under ﬁ ve years of age are being vaccinated against nine life-threatening childhood diseases: polio, diphtheria, tetanus, measles, whooping cough, yellow fever, hepatitis, meningitis, and pneumonia. 2011 Percent Female Management and Professional New Hires by Geographic Region2 Worldwide total Asia Pacific Latin America Europe United States North America (excluding United States) Africa/Middle East 44% 52% 43% 44% 35% 36% 42% Management and Professional New Hires2 Percent women  Percent outside the United States  08 09 10 11  39% 38% 40% 44%  08 09 10 11  69% 63% 70% 79%  2Recruiting numbers for 2011 exclude XTO Energy Inc. LEADERSHIP FRAMEWORK living with the illness. ExxonMobil does not test for HIV, and HIV status is not a factor in determining an employee’s ability to work. Employment policies and practices ExxonMobil focuses on developing a diverse workforce of highly talented individuals to help our business thrive. We use a long-term, career-oriented approach that begins with global recruitment of outstanding talent and continues with development from within through a wide range of assignments and experiences. Diversity. ExxonMobil conducts business in almost every part of the world. The diversity of ideas, perspectives, skills, knowledge, and cultures across our company facilitates inno.vation and is a key competitive advantage. Through a range of programs, activities, and investments, we strive to create and maintain a diverse workforce, representative of the many geographies where we do business. We developed our Global Workforce Diversity Framework to attract, grow, and retain a premier workforce. A series of web-based trainings and tools help our employees under.stand effective cross-cultural communication and cultural sensitivities. We support local employee networks around the world to foster a work environment com.mitted to diversity and inclusion. These include the Asian Connection for Excellence (ACE); Black Employee Success Team (BEST); Global Organization for the Advancement of Latinos (GOAL); People for Respect, Inclusion, and Diversity of Employees (PRIDE); and Women’s Interest Network (WIN). These groups often sponsor educational and community service programs for interested employees. We also support diversity-based educa.tion programs such as the Hispanic Heritage Foundation, National Society of Black Engineers, Society of Women Engineers, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, among others. We believe these strategic investments in education will help build a global pool of talent in science, technol.ogy, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) ﬁelds to support the further development of the oil and gas industry. Without education today, we cannot advance technological innovation to help meet our future energy needs. At the end of 2011, about 39 percent of our employees were located within the United States and 61 percent internationally. In 2011, approximately 34 percent of our executives were non-U.S. employees. We hired more than 2100 management and professional employ.ees worldwide, about 79 percent of whom were outside the United States. ExxonMobil is committed to promoting leadership opportunities for women glob.ally and improving the gender balance within our company. Currently, women account for about 26 percent of our worldwide workforce, excluding company-operated retail stores. In 2011, 44 percent of management and profes.sional new hires were women, signiﬁ cantly higher than the percentage of women in our broader employee population. Approximately 14 percent of executive employees worldwide are women. Our commitment to gender equal.ity extends to all aspects of the employment relationship, including recruitment, hiring, pro.motion, transfer, termination, wage and salary administration, and selection for training. Our business activities require leaders who can effectively work in a complex global environment. A deliberate and focused effort across our company ensures we identify and mentor individuals, design challenging work assignments, support on-the-job experi.ences, and provide training and education. The ExxonMobil Leadership Framework includes three major components: fun.damental business principles, essential personal qualities, and behaviors to achieve premier business results. We embedded this Framework within our business practices and our people development processes. Global Organization Leader Global Team Leader Business Team Leader Unit Team Leader Supervisor Employee To increase the representation of minorities in our U.S. operations, our hiring programs include outreach to identify diverse candi.dates. Based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reporting, minori.ties made up approximately 28 percent of our U.S. workforce and about 18 percent of ofﬁcials and managers in 2011. Policies against discrimination and harass.ment. Our Standards of Business Conduct govern our employment practices. These standards support our commitment to equal employment opportunities, prohibit harass.ment and discrimination in the workplace, and align with applicable laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. Any form of discrimination by or toward employees, contractors, suppliers, and customers in any ExxonMobil workplace is strictly prohibited. Our global, zero-tolerance policy applies to all forms of discrimination, including dis.crimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. Harassment, even in its most subtle forms, directly conﬂicts with company policy and will not be tolerated. All employees are subject to disciplinary action, includ.ing termination, for any act of harassment. We employ a comprehensive education, training, and stewardship program to ensure this policy is understood, implemented, and followed by our employees throughout our worldwide operations. Each afﬁ liate has adopted ExxonMobil’s global standards with modiﬁcations only as needed to comply with country laws. Employee beneﬁts and programs. Exxon Mobil Corporation is committed to being the world’s premier petroleum and petrochemical company. Our beneﬁ ts programs are part of a total employment package and are designed to support our business objectives and be responsive to the needs of employees through.out a career into retirement. They also support ExxonMobil in attracting and retaining the most qualiﬁ ed employees. Providing access to healthcare at an affordable cost helps employees reduce dis.tractions associated with healthcare issues, quality of care, and related ﬁ nancial concerns, enabling the employee to remain productive and focused on job responsibilities. Strong healthcare plans and health-related programs also reinforce the Corporation’s commitment to safety and wellness. Beneﬁt coverage for spouses is based on legally recognized spousal relationships in the individual countries where we operate. In the United States, we have adopted the deﬁ ni.tion of spouse used in federal law. Employees in countries where national law recognizes same-sex relationships receive spousal ben.eﬁts under ExxonMobil programs. The funding levels of qualiﬁed pension plans comply with applicable laws or regu.lations. Deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations are fully supported by the ﬁnancial strength of the Corporation or the respective spon.soring afﬁliate. Flexible work environment. Our workplace ﬂexibility programs help us attract and retain talent, address individual employee needs, and maximize employee productivity. Each country’s workplace ﬂexibility programs differ based on legal requirements, infrastructure, and culture. Examples of employee programs providing ﬂexibility include an adaptable workplace, modiﬁed work weeks, part-time regular employment, extended part-time employment, and adjustable work hours. Performance review process. During the annual performance assessment and development process, all employees have a structured, documented discussion with their supervisors about work goals, training objec.tives, and development needs. This process provides the basis for ongoing employee coaching and continuous performance improvement. Employees are actively devel.oped throughout the course of their careers with training, mentoring, and opportunities to join professional networks. Employee engagement. ExxonMobil strives to communicate openly with our more than 82,000 employees. In 2011, presidents of the functional companies held more than 19 town-hall-style forums and numerous meetings with employees, addressing topics ranging from safety performance to long.term planning. We hold these forums across our operations. Employees have the opportu.nity to ask senior management questions on any topic during these sessions. Explore enhanced web content at exxonmobil.com/citizenship 2011 Percent Women and Minorities by Position in the United States Based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reporting Officials and managers Professionals Total employees 18% 31% 28% Women 18% 23% 28% Minorities 2011 Workforce by Geographic Region3 (thousands of employees) Africa/Middle East 4.3 Canada 6.8 United Asia Pacific States 16.1 32.2 Latin America Europe 4.9 17.9 3Data exclude company-operated retail store employees. HIGHLIGHTS 34  82%  10out of10  stakeholder dialogues  of outstanding shares  rating from Governance- or meetings with institutional  represented at the  Metrics International,  and socially responsible or  Corporation’s Annual Meeting  among top 1 percent of  sustainable investors  companies rated  PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW  What we said in 2010  What we did in 2011  • Include management proposals for shareholder advisory votes on executive compensation in the 2011 proxy statement  • Included management proposals for shareholder advisory votes on executive compensation in the 2011 proxy statement  • Continue recruiting highly qualiﬁ ed non employee directors • Continue outreach to institutional and  • Participated in 34 stakeholder dialogues or meetings with institutional and socially responsible or sustainable investors  socially responsible or sustainable inves tors and other interested parties  • Performed extensive internal and third party audits covering global operations  • Reviewed annual safety, security, health, and environmental performance with the Public Issues and Contributions Committee  (PICC) of the Board of Directors  • Took the Board of Directors to visit  Alberta, Canada, to review afﬁ liated opera.tions, including the Kearl oil sands project  What we plan to do • Continue to recruit highly qualiﬁ ed non employee directors • Conduct Business Practices Reviews for all employees • Continue outreach to investors, includ ing participation in Sustainable Investment Research Analyst Network (SIRAN) calls on topics such as oil sands development • Review annual safety, security, health, and environmental performance with the PICC of the Board of Directors • Host the PICC to visit operations in Wyoming Sound corporate governance requires clear expectations of high ethical standards and integrity in all business activities and investment decisions. ExxonMobil’s ethics and high standards of business conduct allow us to operate in an economic climate where large-scale investments support our long.term business and contribute to the communities where we operate. Board of Directors Our Board of Directors provides independent oversight of the Corporation’s affairs. All direc.tors stand for election at our Annual Meeting of Shareholders. At year-end 2011, 10 of 11 directors and all members of key Board com.mittees, including the presiding director, were independent as deﬁ ned by New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) guidelines. In 2011, the Board of Directors met 10 times, including a visit to Alberta, Canada, to review afﬁ liated operations. Board leadership structure. At this time, the Board serves the best interests of the shareholders through a leadership model with a combined chairman of the Board and chief executive ofﬁcer (CEO). With more than 36 years of service in both domestic and interna.tional positions, the current CEO possesses in-depth knowledge of the Corporation and the challenges of an evolving energy industry. The Board believes these insights position him to provide exemplary leadership. The Board retains the authority to amend the By-Laws to separate the chairman and CEO positions at any time. Each year, the independent Board members select an independent director to serve a minimum of two years as presiding direc.tor. The presiding director chairs executive sessions of the independent directors and works closely with the chairman to develop Board agendas, topics, and schedules, and review materials provided to the directors. All directors may request agenda topics for Board or Board committee meetings, and all have authority to call special meetings of the independent directors. Board appointment process. Achieving a Board of Directors that is diverse in gender, race, geography, experiences, and ﬁ elds of expertise is critical to successful business in a globalized market. The Board Affairs Committee nominates director candidates in accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection of Non-Employee Directors. The committee looks for highly qualiﬁed non-employee candidates with demonstrated competency in a particular ﬁeld, and a commitment to represent the interests of all shareholders. Other desirable qualities include: • Financial expertise; • Experience as the CEO or senior executive of a signiﬁcant company or organization with responsibilities for global operations; • Experience on one or more boards of signiﬁcant public or nongovernmental organi.zations; and, • Expertise resulting from signiﬁcant pro.fessional or academically based scientiﬁc or research activities. In 2011, the Board included female, African-American, and international perspectives. Current director qualiﬁcations are described in the proxy statement. Board committees. Corporate citizenship topics fall under the purview of the Public Issues and Contributions (PICC), Board PUBLIC ISSUES AND CONTRIBUTIONS COMMITTEE The PICC reviews and provides advisory guidance on publicly signiﬁcant policies, programs, and practices, including corpo.rate citizenship topics. According to PICC chairman, Mr. Edward Whitacre, Jr., “The PICC’s charter is to advise the Corporation on public issues, especially those relating to safety, health, and the environment, and on overall contributions objectives, policies, and programs. This role allows us to assess these activities, monitor performance and action plans to improve performance, and make site visits to ensure adherence to company policies and procedures.” Assessing safety, security, health, and environmental performance is a key part of the PICC’s activities. The vice president of safety, security, health, and environment provides the PICC with an annual overview presentation of our safety, security, health, and environmental performance. The PICC was particularly interested in learning about our safety program and water management initiatives during the 2011 presentation. In April, the vice president of public and government affairs met with the PICC to discuss stakeholder perspectives on natural gas and hydraulic fracturing and the Corporation’s outreach strategy. During the meeting, the PICC also discussed our cor.porate blog exxonmobilperspectives.com as a means of two-way communication with the general public. Affairs, and Compensation Committees and are routinely reviewed at Board and Board committee meetings. Only independent direc.tors serve on these committees, which met between four and seven times in 2011. The entire Board is responsible for risk over.sight. The committees help the Board carry out risk oversight by focusing on aspects relevant to their committee. Each committee’s charter is available on our website. Executive compensation and strategic advantage. At ExxonMobil, our compen.sation program is carefully structured to support long-term shareholder value given the capital-intensive nature of our business, long investment lead times, and the criti.cal importance of managing risk. The most senior executives—including the CEO, named executive ofﬁcers, and more than 1000 other U.S. executives—participate in a common compensation program. Compensation decisions for executives take into account several key criteria, includ.ing results in the areas of safety, security, health, and environmental performance. The Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) Framework, which estab.lishes common expectations for addressing inherent risks in our business, takes priority over other business and ﬁ nancial objectives. ExxonMobil executives understand that their compensation will reﬂect how effectively they implement this Framework. The design of the compensation program, including the long During 2011, the PICC also reviewed ExxonMobil’s 2011 Outlook for Energy, Contributions Budget Guidelines for 2012, and proposed 2012 Contributions Budget of the Corporation. The PICC members and other directors visit ExxonMobil operating sites and discuss insights. In 2010, the PICC visited the Port Allen Lubricants Plant and in 2011, the PICC members and other directors visited the Kearl project in Alberta, Canada. In 2012, the PICC plans to visit operations in Wyoming and will talk with employees and review site-speciﬁc safety and environ.mental performance data. vesting requirements and risk of forfeiture of stock awards, ensures that senior executives have a strong ﬁnancial incentive to protect the safety and security of our employees, the communities and environment in which we operate, and the sustainable value of the company for shareholders. The Compensation Committee carefully considered the results of the 2011 advisory vote on executive compensation in which 67 percent of the votes cast were in favor of the company’s compensation program. The Committee considered shareholder feedback on executive compensation received through a wide-ranging dialogue between manage.ment and shareholders. A more detailed description of the company’s dialogue with shareholders and considerations by the Compensation Committee regarding the advisory say-on-pay vote is on page 33 of the company proxy issued April 12, 2012. Communicating with directors. ExxonMobil’s directors encourage open and transparent communication on corporate citizenship topics. Individuals can email our non-employee direc.tors through the Corporate Governance page of our website or send written correspondence in care of the Secretary of the Corporation. ExxonMobil employees work closely with directors in responding to these letters and emails. Directors sometimes request that senior managers meet with shareholders to address particular topics. Shareholder relations Every year, shareholders submit proposals regarding ExxonMobil’s policies or opera.tions for inclusion in our proxy statement. rules—the proposal and the Board’s response and recommendation are published in our proxy statement for review at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. In 2011, shareholders or groups owning more than 4 billion—or nearly 82 percent—of the outstanding shares were represented at the Corporation’s Annual Meeting. We engage in constructive dialogue with our shareholders on a variety of issues throughout the year. For example, the Episcopal Church submitted a shareholder proposal on community environ.mental impact the past few years. ExxonMobil met with a representative from this organization in October 2011 to discuss ways to enhance community engagement at the Baton Rouge, Louisiana, facility. We offered the representa.tive an opportunity to visit an ExxonMobil site there to talk with local community members. As a result of these activities, the shareholder proposal was not submitted for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 2011 PROXY VOTE SUMMARY Ethics High standards of business conduct are a key competitive strength—critical to maintaining our global license to operate. Our presence in nearly every country of the world requires training on international trade laws, including the U.S. anti-corruption and antitrust laws, as well as those in other countries where we do business. All employees are expected to uphold the highest ethical standards of business integrity. They must comply with all applicable laws and accurately record and track all business transactions. Employees are subject to disciplinary action, includ.ing termination, for violations of our policies. Employees receive training on our ethics policy every four years through Business Practices Reviews, including a detailed review of our Standards of Business Conduct; implementa.tion guidelines and procedures; and a review of antitrust, competition, and anti-corruption laws. These general training sessions, in addi.tion to more comprehensive training given to relevant functions on a more frequent basis, are a condition of employment at ExxonMobil. Standards of Business Conduct. Our Standards of Business Conduct deﬁ ne the global ethical conduct of the Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries. These Standards uphold the values of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. The Board of Directors has adopted and oversees the administration of the Standards. No one has authority to make exceptions or grant waivers to the Standards. Disciplinary action is taken against any employee who violates these Standards. Employees are expected to review the Standards each year. While ExxonMobil is not a formal signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, its values represent key elements of our Standards. Percent vote for1 Proxy item 2011 2010 2009 1. Election of Directors (average)2 96.0 95.3 97.5 2. Ratiﬁcation of Independent Auditors2 98.8 98.9 98.5 3. Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation2 67.2 -.4. Frequency of Advisory Vote on 42.7 (3 years) -. Executive Compensation2 2.8 (2 years) -.54.5(1 year) -.5. Independent Chairman 31.3 -29.5 6. Report on Political Contributions 23.6 -.7. Amendment of EEO Policy 19.9 22.2 39.3 Typically, managers and the Board con. 8. Policy on Water  6.9  6.7  - sider these proposals and the Corporation engages the proposal sponsor in a dialogue. If the Corporation and the sponsor reach a consensus, the proposal is often withdrawn.  9. Report on Canadian Oil Sands 10. Report on Natural Gas Production 11. Report on Energy Technology  27.1 28.2 6.1  26.4 26.3 6.7  --- Otherwise—and unless excluded under  12. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Goals  26.5  27.2  29.0  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 1Abstentions count for quorum purposes, but not toward voting on these proposals 2Proposals submitted by the Board Internal audits. Regular internal audits and self-assessments help ensure the rigor.ous implementation of our control systems and Standards. ExxonMobil’s internal audit team of more than 200 well-trained auditors annually audit about one-third of ExxonMobil’s operations, conducting detailed assessments of facilities, business units, personnel, and records, and thoroughly investigating noncompliance with the Standards. These audits are conducted across all functions of the Corporation. Bribery and corruption. Anti-corruption practices are an essential component of our compliance program, given that we operate globally and in many challenging environ.ments. The Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Summary outlines ExxonMobil’s commitment to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and global anti-corruption standards in all business relationships. ExxonMobil employees and contractors are prohibited from making payments to, or engaging in transactions with, government ofﬁ cials to improperly inﬂ uence the performance of their ofﬁ cial duties. Maintaining internal controls and keeping accurate and complete transaction records are required. Our standard language for procurement contracts includes a requirement to comply with all laws and keep accurate books and records, and where appropriate, contains speciﬁ c anti-brib.ery commitments. For more information, please see the case study on integrity in the supply chain (page 36). Training. Oil and gas exploration and pro.duction often take us to remote parts of the world, with changing political and regula.tory climates. In 2011, approximately 13,400 employees took part in anti-corruption training. This training covers the basics of the FCPA, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, global anti-corruption standards, recent developments in enforcement, and compliance with our internal anti-corruption policy, guidelines, and processes. Employees in positions assessed to be higher-risk receive live training every year and within three months of entering their positions. Every two years, managers and pro.fessional employees not in higher-risk positions receive training. Every four years and in 2012, all employees will attend mandatory half-day Business Practices Reviews that include anti-corruption issues. ExxonMobil believes that face-to-face training is the most effective way to train employees in anti-corruption compliance; almost all anti-corruption training is conducted in an interactive live session. Additionally, we monitor world events and political changes and advise employees as appropriate. Systems and practices for reporting viola.tions. We reinforce our commitment to ethics and high standards of business conduct with the expectation for all employees to report suspected violations of laws and company policies. The Corporation provides several conﬁ dential mechanisms for report.ing, including a 24-hour phone number and mailing address. Employees can also report violations as a part of supervisory reviews. Conﬁdentiality is respected throughout the investigation process, subject to legal require.ments; penalizing or threatening an employee for ﬁling a report is prohibited. A Hotline Steering Committee comprising security, audit, law, and human resources personnel reviews all reports of suspected violations. The Committee provides a quarterly report to the Audit Committee, including any violations or major issues. Violations lead to disciplinary actions, including dismissal. Global management standards and approaches Our internal management systems help identify, track, and report the metrics that demonstrate and guide our performance. These systems enable us to comply with new regulations; where laws and regulations do not exist, they provide a framework for maintaining our high standards. Operations Integrity Management System. The Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) establishes common expectations for addressing safety, security, health, envi.ronmental, and social risks. OIMS provides a systematic, structured, and disciplined approach to measure progress and track accountability across business lines, facilities, and projects. We evaluate opportunities to improve the OIMS Framework every ﬁ ve years and make regular upgrades and adjustments. In 2011, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc., reviewed our ongoing performance and attested that OIMS is consistent with the standard on environmental management systems of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO 14001:2004) and the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series for health and safety management systems (OHSAS 18001:2007). For information on how we implement OIMS across our opera.tions, please see the Kearl site tour (page 10), the case study on integrity in our supply chain (page 36), and the Singapore site tour (page 48). Control systems. ExxonMobil’s System of Management Control Basic Standards deﬁ nes essential principles and concepts that drive our business controls. Our Controls Integrity Management System is designed to assess and measure ﬁ nancial control risks, including procedures for mitigating concerns, monitor.ing compliance with standards, and reporting results to the appropriate operations and management groups within ExxonMobil. These company-wide ﬁ nancial controls meet or exceed the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and NYSE listing standards. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP conducted an independent assessment that determined our internal controls system is effective for ﬁ nancial reporting. Regular self-assessments and audits help ensure that every operating unit consis.tently implements our controls and standards. Political advocacy and contributions ExxonMobil supports policies that promote stable investment climates for long-term business viability. ExxonMobil makes political contributions to candidate committees, political parties, associations, and other political organi.zations, as permitted by applicable laws in the United States and Canada, and as authorized by the Board of Directors. The Corporation refrains from making political contributions in any nation other than the United States or Canada. In 2011, Exxon Mobil Corporation contributed a total of $226,700 to legislative and gubernatorial candidates and caucuses in 14 U.S. states. Information about our political activities, policy, guidelines, and an itemized list of corporate political contributions are available on our website. ExxonMobil’s employee- and retiree-funded political action committee (PAC) disbursed $631,500 to federal candidates in 2011. Based on these contributions, CQ Moneyline listed the ExxonMobil PAC No. 84 in size compared to other PACs. Among corporate PACs, the ExxonMobil PAC ranked No. 33 in size in terms of receipts from employees and retiree shareholders, and No. 36 in size of total contributions to candidates. All rankings are compiled from publicly available data ﬁ led with the Federal Election Commission. ExxonMobil, like many U.S. companies, labor unions, and other entities, lobbies the U.S. Congress and state legislatures, and com.plies fully with regulations by reporting federal lobbying expenses in quarterly disclosure reports to Congress. In 2011, ExxonMobil reported lobbying expenses of $12.7 million. CQ Moneyline ranked ExxonMobil No. 21 for lobbying expenses. We lobbied on a number of public policy topics, including energy policy, trade, taxes, pipeline safety, security, and climate policy. ExxonMobil also engages with trade associa.tions at the national, state, and local levels. Participation in these organizations helps support our positions on issues critical to the shareholders’ interests. Some of the support we provide to trade associations may be used for lobbying activities. ExxonMobil requires trade associations to report to us the portion of dues used for lobbying purposes; we include these amounts in quarterly public Lobby Disclosure Act ﬁ lings. Explore enhanced web content at exxonmobil.com/citizenship Integrity in our Supply Chain Third parties providing services to ExxonMobil can impact our operations and reputation. Currently we rely on more than 175,000 suppliers of goods and services, including more than 85,000 third-party contractor personnel. Because our global reach expands well beyond our fence lines, we seek and develop relationships with suppliers that uphold our commitment to operations integrity. Our supply chain management process begins when any of ExxonMobil’s business lines identiﬁes operational or project needs requiring the procurement of third-party goods, services, or materials. We apply a standardized procurement approach that allows our operations to share the same rigorous standards, accountability, and best practices worldwide. Our procurement staff is trained to conduct supplier prequaliﬁ cation assessments, which include anti-corruption due diligence where appropriate, perform restricted parties screening, and incorporate standard legal terms and conditions into contracts. After pre-qualiﬁcation, our pro.curement professionals communicate project expectations or operational requirements that a potential or existing supplier must meet. We use procurement plans to describe our needs and recommend methods to achieve them. Supplier qualiﬁcations ExxonMobil has in place a disciplined qualiﬁcation process for suppliers. Once the business line has determined the operational requirements, procurement clearly com.municates those requirements to potential suppliers and incorporates the operational requirements into the proposed agreement. SUPPLY CHAIN TRANSPARENCY This process is used whether ExxonMobil is procuring a pump for a reﬁnery, janito.rial services at an ofﬁce building, or hiring a fabricator to build an offshore structure. Potential suppliers and their capabilities are then assessed based on operational criticality and level of risk associated with the material or service required. Considerations include: • Health and safety requirements; • Technical requirements; • Environmental requirements; • Emergency response capabilities; • Security and human rights standards; • Design, construction, and project assur.ance and procedures; • Product quality assurance, including product stewardship; • Supplier operating, maintenance, and control processes; and, • Financial qualiﬁ cations. Additionally, supplier selection takes into account both regulatory and ExxonMobil policies regarding local hiring, material use, supplier diversity, indigenous peoples support, historically underutilized seg.ments of the population, and the local economy. We comply with speciﬁc sup-plier-related requirements in each country where we operate. When selecting a supplier, we evaluate the bids submitted and make a determination based on quality, technical capabilities, and cost. When we are procuring a component for a speciﬁc project, the safety and viability of the project may rely on assurances of product quality. For example, if we need to purchase pipe for one of our upstream projects, we perform extensive analysis and testing to conﬁrm that the pipe complies with project speciﬁcations. For further infor.mation on some of these standards, see the Nigeria pipeline example (page 41). Local supplier development It is one of ExxonMobil’s priorities to consider local suppliers as part of our project agree.ments with host countries. We want to build and maintain globally competitive supply chain infrastructure wherever we operate to enhance supply chain security and reduce operational risk. Helping develop local suppli.ers to service the oil and gas industry is part of our national content strategy. For more information, see page 41. Our Statement on Labor and the Workplace articulates our support for the principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, namely the elimination of child labor, forced labor, and workplace discrimination, and the recogni.tion of the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Through our regimented procurement process, we seek business partners that observe similar standards. Purchases arranged for by our global procurement organization typically include contract language that requires adherence to all applicable laws and regulations, which would include all laws and regulations regarding safety, security, health, the environment, and human rights. Furthermore, requests for quotations issued by our procurement staff typically include clauses relating to the prohibition of forced or child labor and the payment of wages in accordance with local laws. Participants in such tenders are required to adhere to those requirements as a condi.tion of participating in the tender process. An additional means of managing supply chain transparency involves auditing. A typical clause in our contracts requires sup.pliers and all their subcontractors to allow ExxonMobil access to all ofﬁ ces and work locations, to interview supplier and subcon.tractor personnel, and to make and retain copies of any records concerning compli.ance with contract requirements and the law. We select a certain percentage of suppliers annually for such audits, which include a compliance review on contract provisions. Human trafﬁcking issues have received considerable attention in recent years. ExxonMobil proactively manages supply chain risks, including those associated with human trafﬁcking, through our Standards of Business Conduct and Statement on Labor and the Workplace. We also seek to reduce the underlying conditions that lead to human trafﬁcking by working to engender economic growth and personal prosperity in areas that otherwise offer few opportunities. Supplier monitoring We use OIMS to manage risk across our operations. The OIMS Framework estab.lishes expectations for managing and mitigating safety, security, health, environ.mental, and social risks in every aspect of our business, including our supply chain. After selecting suppliers, each business line is responsible for managing the supplier relationship. Implementing OIMS Element 8— Third-Party Services—calls for the moni.toring and stewardship of third-party performance. We provide feedback to suppliers, and when necessary, request that they correct deﬁciencies. In certain cases, we terminate the contractual relationship if performance does not meet expectations. Improving supply chain sustainability ExxonMobil is working with our suppliers to identify sustainable alternatives throughout the supply chain. Our procurement organization’s Total System Cost approach is intended to identify and reduce waste and inefﬁciency in the supply chain. Additionally, we are assess.ing sustainability certiﬁcations for suppliers, products, and services. Our global procure.ment organization has begun training staff speciﬁcally on sustainability considerations in our purchase-to-pay processes and we aim to align sustainability efforts with major suppliers. MINORITY- AND WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN We cultivate diversity across our supply chain through our U.S.-based Supplier Diversity Program. This initiative proac.tively includes qualiﬁed minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs) in our procurement sourcing process. In 2011, we achieved a signiﬁ.cant milestone of purchasing materials and services worth $869 million in direct spend and $181 million in spend lever.aged through contracts where suppliers purchase from MWBEs on our behalf, for a total annual spend of over $1 billion. In 2012, we will continue to grow our busi.ness relationships with over 1500 MWBEs in the United States and look for opportu.nities in other parts of the world for similar supplier diversity programs. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ExxonMobil “Buddy Manager System” We expect third parties working for us to perform in a manner consistent and compatible with ExxonMobil’s policies and business objectives. One best practice called the “Buddy Manager System” is becoming widespread across our operations for enhancing the company-supplier relationship. Each primary supplier is assigned an ExxonMobil “buddy” who acts as a mentor, helping the individual or ﬁrm set performance objectives. “Buddies” provide advice and guidance, and help suppliers build accountability with ExxonMobil. At the Baytown Manufacturing complex, Rescar works as a third-party contractor providing railcar switching and repair services. The assigned ExxonMobil “Buddy Manager” works closely with Rescar senior management and the on-site team on improving the design and effectiveness of Rescar’s safety program. The ExxonMobil “Buddy Manager” con.ducts periodic ﬁeld visits and site walk-throughs to verify and ensure Rescar is properly implementing safety plans. Over the years, this collaboration has signiﬁcantly improved Rescar’s safety performance at the Baytown complex. At many of our locations, we have several suppliers that work in similar capacities. We encourage collaboration on safety issues among these partners, as it helps improve performance and encourage innovation. OIMS IN THE ACQUISITION PROCESS Operations Driver Evaluation 1. Evaluate and select based on criteria 2. Define and communicate requirements 3. Manage interfaces between organizations 4. Monitor and assess performance 