CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Ethics and high standards of business conduct are at the heart of ExxonMobil’s business success and are a part of every employee’s job expectations. 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report exxonmobil.com Board of Directors The ExxonMobil board of directors and board committees provide oversight of the corporation’s operations. Our board of directors provides independent oversight of the corporation’s affairs. All directors are required to stand for election at our annual meeting of shareholders. At year-end 2013, 12 of 13 directors, including the presiding director and all members of key board committees, were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) guidelines. In 2013, the board of directors met 11 times and visited an integrated refining and chemical plant in Europe to review affiliated operations. BOARD LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE Each year, the independent board members select an inde.pendent director to serve a minimum of two years as presiding director. The presiding director chairs executive sessions of the independent directors and coordinates with the chairman on board agendas, topics and schedules. Any director may request agenda topics for board or board committee meetings and has the authority to call special meetings of the indepen.dent directors. At this time, the board believes the best interests of the share.holders are served through a leadership model that combines the roles of chairman of the board and chief executive officer (CEO). With more than 38 years of service in both domestic and international positions, our current CEO possesses in-depth knowledge of the corporation and the challenges of an evolving energy industry. BOARD APPOINTMENT PROCESS The diversity of our board members as it relates to gender, race, geography, experience and fields of expertise is important to succeeding in a globalized market. The Board Affairs Committee nominates director candidates in accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection of Non-Employee Directors, and diversity is a key consideration. The committee looks for highly qualified non-employee candidates with demonstrated leadership and competency in a particular field and a commitment to repre.sent the interests of our shareholders. Other desirable qualities include:  Financial expertise  Experience as the CEO or senior executive of a significant company or organization with responsibilities for global operations  Experience on one or more boards of significant public organizations or NGOs  Expertise resulting from significant professional or academically based scientific or research activities In 2013, the board included female, African-American and international perspectives. William C. Weldon joined the board in 2013 following election by shareholders. We describe current director qualifications in our proxy statement. View our 2014 proxy statement BOARD COMMITTEES Corporate citizenship topics fall under the purview of the Public Issues and Contributions Committee, the Board Affairs Committee and the Compensation Committee, and are rou.tinely reviewed at board committee meetings. Only indepen.dent directors serve on these committees, each of which met between four and seven times in 2013. The entire ExxonMobil board of directors receives in-depth briefings at least annually that cover updates on public policy and energy-related scientific and technical research, as well as company positions and actions in these areas. While risk over.sight is the responsibility of the entire board, committees help the board focus on risk aspects relevant to each committee. View our committees’ charters EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE At ExxonMobil, our compensation program is carefully structured to support long-term shareholder value given the capital-intensive nature of our business, long investment lead times and the critical importance of managing risks. The most senior executives — including the CEO, Named Executive Officers and more than 1,000 other executives in the United States — participate in a common compensation program. Compensation for executives is based on a rigorous annual individual performance assessment process taking into account several key performance factors, including results in the areas of safety, security, health and environmental performance. ExxonMobil executives understand that their compensation will reflect how effectively they manage risk. The design of the compensation program, including long holding periods for stock-based awards and risk of forfeiture of these awards, ensures that senior executives have a strong financial incentive to focus on the long-term integrity of our operations. This in turn protects the safety and security of our employees, the communities and environments in which we operate and the long-term sustainable value of the company for shareholders. The Compensation Committee carefully considered the results of the 2013 advisory vote on executive compensation, in Up Close: Board Visit to the Gravenchon Platform in Europe ExxonMobil’s Gravenchon Platform is an integrated Down.stream and Chemical facility strategically located approximately 15 miles from the deep-sea port of Le Havre on the English Channel in France. ExxonMobil and its predecessor firms have operated the site for more than 80 years. Today, refined fuels, lubricants and chemicals are produced at the facility. In June 2013, ExxonMobil directors and executives visited the Gravenchon Platform. During the visit, which encompassed tours of various production facilities such as the automated lubricant oil blending plant, participants viewed how ExxonMobil’s competitive advantages have been successfully implemented in this major, mature industrial site. The visit also included a tour of the state-of-the-art offsite operations hub and control room, and presentations by site employees. which 70.6 percent of the votes cast were “for” the company’s compensation program. The committee considered share.holder feedback on executive compensation received through management engagement with shareholders, including the company’s largest shareholders, many of whom have held ExxonMobil stock for more than a decade. The committee determined that the company’s current compen.sation program continues to support ExxonMobil’s business model. See pages 60–62 of ExxonMobil’s proxy statement issued on April 11, 2014, for a more in-depth discussion of the say-on-pay vote. COMMUNICATING WITH DIRECTORS ExxonMobil’s directors encourage open and transparent communication on corporate citizenship topics. Individuals can email our non-employee directors through the Corporate Governance page of our website or send written correspon.dence in care of the Secretary of the Corporation. ExxonMobil employees work closely with directors in responding to these letters and emails. Directors sometimes request that senior managers meet with shareholders to address particular topics. Shareholder Relations 2013 PROXY VOTE SUMMARY Percent vote for1 Proxy Item  2013  2012  2011  2010  1. Election of directors (average)2  96.1  97.4  96.0  95.3  2. Ratification of independent auditors2  98.9  98.6  98.8  98.9  3. Advisory vote on executive compensation2  70.6  77.8  67.2  –  4. Independent chairman  34.9  35.1  31.3  –  5. Majority vote for directors  45.2  43.3  –  –  6. Limit directorships  5.8  –  –  –  7. Report on lobbying  24.9  –  –  –  8. Political contributions policy  5.7  –  –  –  9. Amendment of EEO policy  19.8  20.6  19.9  22.2  10. Report on natural gas production  30.2  29.6  28.2  26.3  11. Greenhouse gas emissions goals  26.7  27.1  26.5  27.2  Constructive engagement with our shareholders allows us to identify areas of opportunity and improve.ment throughout our business. We engage in constructive dialogue with our shareholders on a variety of topics throughout the year. In 2013, we had 32 share.holder dialogues with labor unions, religious organizations, state pension funds, socially responsible investors and institutional shareholders. At ExxonMobil’s 2013 annual meeting, sharehold.ers owning approximately 3.7 billion — or more than 82 percent — of outstanding shares were represented. Shareholders voted on directors, independent auditors, executive compensation and eight shareholder proposals. Every year, shareholders submit suggestions on ways to improve the company. Management and the board consider these suggestions and engage with the proposal sponsors. The Corporate Citizenship Report, Energy Outlook, Carbon Disclosure Project response and ExxonMobil’s website content have been helpful in building understanding regarding the 1Abstentions count for quorum purposes, but not toward voting on these proposals. 2Proposals submitted by the board company’s achievements. We report transparently on issues important to our shareholders through these and other sources. Over the past five years, shareholders have with.drawn 17 proposals on governance, social and environmental issues as a result of our engagement efforts. When agreement on a shareholder proposal is not reached, the proposal and the board’s response and recommenda.tions are published in our proxy statement for review at the annual meeting. For example, a proposal submitted in 2013 requested ExxonMobil to report on its lobbying policies and procedures, as well as lobbying expenses beyond what we currently do in conformity with applicable laws. After careful consideration, the board determined the company’s current transparency and accountability around lobbying activities were appropriate. Shareholder support for this proposal was approximately 25 percent. View the issues raised by shareholders in our     2014 proxy statement Ethics and Integrity ExxonMobil’s Standards of Business Conduct guide the daily actions of each employee — from our board to our personnel working in front-line operations — and ensure we operate at the highest level of ethical and operational integrity. Performing with the highest ethical standards of business conduct is a key competitive strength and is critical to maintain.ing our global license to operate. Our presence in nearly every country of the world requires training of employees, officers, directors and those acting on our behalf on U.S. anti-corruption, anti-trust, anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls laws, as well as those in other countries applicable to our business. All directors, officers and employees are expected to uphold the highest ethical standards of business integrity. Employees are subject to disciplinary action, including termi.nation, for violations of our policies. Employees receive training on our ethics policy every four years through business practice reviews, including a detailed review of our Standards of Business Conduct, implementation guidelines and procedures, including the corporation’s anti-trust, anti-corruption, gifts and enter.tainment, and international operations policies. In addition to these business practice reviews, our law department conducts live, comprehensive training sessions annually on anti-trust and anti-corruption compliance for directors, officers, employees and third parties acting on ExxonMobil’s behalf. In addition, regular training is provided on anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls for employees with relevant job functions. STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT Our Standards of Business Conduct define the global ethical conduct of the corporation and its majority-owned subsidiar.ies. These Standards, adopted and administered by the board of directors, cover labor, the environment and anti-corruption, among other topics. While ExxonMobil is not a formal signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, its values represent key elements of our Standards. No one has authority to make excep.tions or grant waivers to the Standards. Each year, employees complete a certification process confirming they have reviewed and are familiar with the Standards. We take disciplinary action against any employee who violates the Standards. INTERNAL AUDITS Regular internal audits and self-assessments help ensure the rigorous implementation of our control systems and the Standards of Business Conduct. ExxonMobil’s internal team of more than 200 auditors annually audits approximately one-third of ExxonMobil’s operations, conducting detailed assessments of facilities, business units, personnel and records, and thoroughly investigating noncompliance with the Standards. These audits are conducted across all functions of the corporation. BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION The Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Guide outlines ExxonMobil’s commitment to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the United Kingdom Bribery Act and global anti-corruption standards in our business relationships. It also describes elements of the corporation’s anti-corruption compliance program. ExxonMobil employees and contractors are prohibited from making payments to, or engaging in transactions with, gov.ernment officials to influence the performance of their official duties improperly. Maintaining internal controls and keeping accurate and complete transaction records are required. Our standard language for procurement contracts includes a requirement to comply with all laws and keep accurate books and records, and, where appropriate, contains specific anti-bribery commitments. TRAINING The nature of our business often takes us to remote parts of the world with changing political and regulatory climates; this makes it imperative we train our employees on ethics and integrity topics. In 2013, approximately 18,000 employees took part in anti-corruption training. This training covers the basics of the FCPA, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, global anti-corruption standards, recent developments in enforce.ment, and compliance with our internal anti-corruption policy, guidelines and processes. Employees in positions assessed to be higher-risk receive training every year and within three Stakeholder Engagement: Learning from Our Shareholders Engaging our shareholders is an important way to receive feedback and participate in a dialogue regarding their concerns. In December 2013, we met with approximately 25 climate proponents and advocates from state and city pension funds, socially responsible investors and other interested parties. The meeting focused on topics such as our Energy Outlook, carbon assets, public policy and GHG emissions goals. Following our presentation, we received questions related to investments in sustainable energy, planning scenarios for outcomes different from those in the Energy Outlook and carbon asset risk. The group requested we take an even more active public role in explaining the consequences of climate change. The attending shareholders said they came away with a better understanding of ExxonMobil’s actions and positions. They also gained a keener appreciation for energy industry supply and demand and the consequences, especially for the less fortunate, if needed energy were arbitrarily capped. We will continue to communicate with these groups regarding climate-related shareholder proposals. View shareholder proposals in our 2014 proxy statement View our Energy and Carbon — Managing the Risks and Energy and Climate reports months of entering their positions. Every two years, we pro.vide training to managers and professional employees not in higher-risk positions. Additionally, we monitor legal and regu.latory developments and advise employees as appropriate. SYSTEMS AND PRACTICES FOR REPORTING VIOLATIONS We reinforce our commitment to ethics and high standards of business conduct by encouraging employees to report suspected violations of law and company policies or any other concerns. The corporation provides several confiden.tial mechanisms for reporting, including a 24-hour phone number and a mailing address. Employees can also report violations during supervisory reviews. Confidentiality is respected throughout the investigation process, subject to legal requirements; retaliation against an employee for filing a report is strictly prohibited. A Hotline Steering Committee comprising security, internal audit, law and human resources personnel reviews reports of suspected violations. Internal audit provides a quarterly report to the Audit Committee that summarizes the Steering Committee’s findings, including any violations or major issues. Violations lead to disciplinary actions, including dismissal. Political Advocacy and Contributions Annually, ExxonMobil lobbies in support of policies that are in the best interest of the company. ExxonMobil continues to support policies that promote stable investment climates for long-term business viability. We make political contributions to candidate committees, political par.ties, political associations and other political organizations as permitted by applicable laws in the United States and Canada, as well as authorized by the board of directors. The corpora.tion refrains from making political contributions in any nation other than the United States and Canada. In 2013, Exxon Mobil Corporation contributed a total of $269,850 to legislative and gubernatorial candidates and caucuses in 16 U.S. states. Information about our Political Activities Policy and Guidelines, and an itemized list of corporate political con.tributions to national political organizations and state candi.dates and caucuses, is available on our website. Learn more about our political contributions and lobbying ExxonMobil’s employee- and retiree shareholder-funded politi.cal action committee (PAC) disbursed $640,003 to federal and state candidates in 2013. Based on these contributions, CQ Moneyline listed the ExxonMobil PAC No. 57 in size compared with other corporate PACs. The ExxonMobil PAC ranked No. 41 in terms of receipts from employees and retiree shareholders. The rankings are compiled from publicly available data filed with the Federal Election Commission. ExxonMobil, like many U.S. companies, labor unions and other entities, lobbies the U.S. Congress and state legislatures. We comply fully with regulations by reporting federal lobbying expenses in quarterly disclosure reports to Congress. In 2013, ExxonMobil reported lobbying expenses of $13.4 million. We lobbied on a number of issues last year, including the Keystone XL pipeline, onshore development of domestic resources, tax policy, international trade and education. Keystone XL pipeline: ExxonMobil fully supports the permit.ting of the Keystone XL pipeline project to bring Canadian oil to U.S. refineries. This will help grow the economy, provide jobs for our workers and increase American energy security. Hydraulic fracturing: The United States sits atop tremendous natural resources, many of which have been locked away in difficult-to-reach formations. ExxonMobil supports the combined use of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to enable the safe and economical production of these import.ant energy sources. These technologies have been in use for decades; by combining them, the United States has seen a significant increase in domestic oil and gas production. Tax policy: Tax policy can either help or hinder the ability of U.S. oil and gas companies to develop worldwide energy resources. ExxonMobil supports stable tax policies that enable the industry to remain competitive in the global marketplace. Energy development clearly benefits our economy, and sound tax policy that encourages investment and capital formation bolsters productivity and fosters job creation. International trade: International trade is an important U.S. policy issue. ExxonMobil supports free trade of all products, including energy products such as oil and natural gas. Increasing trade benefits U.S. consumers and encourages more invest.ment, sustains high-paying jobs and fosters economic growth. Education: Improving U.S. educational performance is vital to the success of our industry and to national competitiveness. We applaud sensible, forward-looking efforts to raise aca.demic standards and help teachers and students. We support STEM education initiatives and the Common Core State Stan.dards as part of a path to renewed competitiveness. There is widespread interest from many constituent groups on how the United States pursues sound policy on these issues. We anticipate and look forward to many active discussions with those who have an interest in these areas. View our Perspectives blog for more information     on relevant policy issues 