Corporate governanceExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to high ethical standards. Good corporate governance creates a business environment conducive to long-term growth. All our directors are required to stand for election each year at our annual meeting of shareholders. Independent directors also chair key board committees — audit, compensation, board affairs and public issues and contributions — that consist entirely of independent directors.  “ExxonMobil’s board of directors provides a key oversight role, including review of risk management efforts and long-term strategic plans. Ensuring that we have diversity of background, experiences and thought represented on the board remains critical to succeeding in a global market.”Above: The ExxonMobil board of directors. Top row from the left: Michael Boskin, Angela Braly, Steven Kandarian, Samuel Palmisano, Darren Woods, Kenneth Frazier, Douglas Oberhelman and Ursula Burns. Bottom row from the left: Steven Reinemund, Susan Avery and William Weldon. Neil A. Hansen
Vice president, investor relations and corporate secretary, Exxon Mobil CorporationCorporate governanceBoard leadershipExxonMobil’s board affairs committee, supported by an independent executive search firm, looks for highly qualified, non-employee candidates with demonstrated leadership, competency and a commitment to represent the interests of all shareholders. To help keep the process collaborative and inclusive, the board affairs committee considers recommendations from shareholders, directors and others on director candidates. At year-end 2017, 40 percent of the board’s independent directors were female and/or an ethnic minority. Sustainability topics are routinely reviewed at board meetings and typically fall under the purview of the public issues and contributions committee, the board affairs committee and the compensation committee. While risk oversight is the responsibility of the entire board, committees help the board focus on risk aspects relevant to each committee. For example, the public issues and contributions committee is charged with reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s policies, programs and practices with respect to the environment, among other duties. The committee hears reports from operating units on environmental activities and also visits operating sites to observe and comment on current practices. The entire board receives briefings by internal experts on environmental stewardship and climate change.
Shareholder relationsExxonMobil values the dialogue we have with our shareholders — and the insight provided — throughout the year. The board has established procedures for shareholders and other interested parties to communicate with board members. In 2017, we held 68 shareholder engagements on environmental, social and governance issues with institutional investors, pension funds, labor, religious and nongovernmental organizations, representing an estimated 50 percent of outstanding stock held by institutional investors and about 30 percent of total shares outstanding. These engagements have frequently enabled us to reach common ground with our shareholders, in some cases avoiding the need for more formal shareholder proposals at the annual shareholders meeting.Consistent with ExxonMobil’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, the board of directors reconsidered a proposal requesting a report on impacts of climate change policies (Item 12) submitted by the New York State Common Retirement Fund, which received a majority of votes cast during the 2017 annual shareholders meeting. In reconsidering the proposal, the company sought input from a number of parties, such as the proponents and major shareholders. The board decided to further enhance the company’s disclosures consistent with the proposal and issued these disclosures in February 2018 in ExxonMobil’s Energy and Carbon Summary and the Outlook for Energy. These enhancements include energy demand sensitivities, implications of 2 degree Celsius scenarios and positioning for a lower-carbon future. 
Business conductOperating ethically and responsibly is ingrained in our business culture and is monitored, enforced and improved through our globally deployed Standards of Business Conduct. In 2017, nearly 18,000 employees and contractors participated in anti-corruption training.ExxonMobil encourages employees and contractors to ask questions, voice concerns and report any suspected violations of company policies. In addition to our open-door communication procedures, ExxonMobil has several confidential mechanisms for reporting, including a 24-hour “hotline” phone number and a mailing address. TransparencyExxonMobil's involvement with transparency initiatives is a natural extension of our commitment to ethical behavior. We appreciate the need for relevant public and private company government payment disclosures to confirm the values of total government revenues and to help citizens hold their governments accountable for the use of those revenues.We believe the most successful transparency initiatives are those that apply to all foreign, domestic and state-owned companies, protect proprietary information to promote commercial competitiveness, comply with international trade conventions and treaties and do not violate host government laws or contractual obligations. We monitor and participate in transparency initiatives and we will continue to work with governments developing new reporting rules to support transparency objectives in countries where we operate.Since its inception, we have been an active participant in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) — a global organization that promotes the open and accountable management of oil, gas and mineral resources. We work with several governments that are EITI members, as well as others considering membership.
Policy engagementExxonMobil engages with governments to provide information and insight on policies that can affect our business. In 2017, ExxonMobil reported lobbying expenses in the United States totaling $11.4 million in our public Lobby Disclosures Act filings. The board of directors has authorized ExxonMobil to make political contributions to candidate committees and other political organizations as permitted by applicable laws in the United States and Canada. 
In 2017, we contributed over $210,000 to state candidates and caucuses in 10 U.S. states. Corporate political contributions are subject to an internal review process that requires approval from the chairman.
Bert Vos, a section head at the ExxonMobil Rotterdam refinery, provides an overview of facility operations to Chairman and CEO Darren Woods and board members Douglas Oberhelman and Susan Avery. Corporate governanceIn 2017, the public issues and contributions committee visited the ExxonMobil research and engineering laboratory facilities in Clinton, New Jersey. Front row from the left, board of directors Steven Reinemund, Susan Avery, Michael Boskin, Angela Braly and Henrietta Fore. Back row from the left, Robert Luettgen, manager of the office of the secretary, Vijay Swarup, vice president of research and development, Michael Dolan, senior vice president, Jeffrey Woodbury, vice president of investor relations and corporate secretary, and Bart Cahir, executive advisor to the chairman.Explore moreBoard engagement in ExxonMobil 
operations exxonmobil.com/boardengagementExxonMobil’s position on key issuesexxonmobil.com/policyengagement2017 Proxy Statementexxonmobil.com/proxymaterials112017 Sustainability Report HighlightsSafety, health and the workplaceSafety is a core value at ExxonMobil. The health and safety policies set by ExxonMobil and adopted by our affiliates reflect our company’s commitment to high operational standards and the well-being of our employees. We strive for an incident-free workplace and a culture that complies with our clear and simple objective: Nobody Gets Hurt. We build our culture of safety and health by attracting, developing and retaining individuals who share our commitment to operational excellence.“In 2017 ExxonMobil achieved our lowest ever recordable injury rate as we continue working to eliminate all serious injuries. These improvements are supported by enhanced safety standards, strengthened safety leadership skills and human performance improvement programs. All of which are worked under our Operational Integrity Management System framework.”Jerry Wascom
Vice president, operational excellence, safety, security, health and environment, 
Exxon Mobil CorporationAbove: Philip Ceary, a technical start-up lead, assessing equipment at the Antwerp refinery in Belgium. Safety, health and the workplaceSafety and healthExxonMobil’s commitment to operational excellence starts at the top, is driven throughout our businesses and is consistent everywhere we operate. Our global health and safety goal is zero injuries and illnesses. Since 2000, we have reduced our workforce lost-time incident rate by more than 80 percent. While this number is declining, safety incidents do occur. We deeply regret that two contract workers were fatally injured in separate incidents related to ExxonMobil operations in 2017. One incident occurred at an onshore drilling site and the other happened at a refinery during construction activities. We thoroughly investigated the causes and contributing factors associated with the incidents to prevent similar events in the future and to globally disseminate findings. ExxonMobil’s Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) establishes a framework for addressing risk across all aspects of our operations. OIMS, which is built around 11 key elements of risk, is embedded into everyday work processes in each of the following areas of safety at ExxonMobil: Process safety: Process safety is about managing the integrity of our facilities by applying good design principles, engineering and operating practices. ExxonMobil incorporates rigorous safety standards and procedures in our facilities’ design, construction and operating activities. We classify and track incidents by severity from Tier 1 through Tier 4, with Tier 1 referring to events of greater consequence. In 2017, we experienced 63 Tier 1 process safety events, which is approximately 1.6 percent lower than 2016.Product stewardship: Product stewardship refers to a series of interconnected work processes for the safe and effective management of a product, focusing on the health, safety and environmental impacts at each phase of a product’s lifecycle. We regularly use lifecycle assessments to consider impacts during the development, manufacturing, use and disposal of our products.Product transportation: ExxonMobil implements rigorous safety and environmental standards while transporting our products, including by marine, pipeline and rail. We carefully maintain and monitor our infrastructure worldwide to identify and prevent corrosion, third-party damage or illegal intrusions onto our rights of way.Emergency preparedness and response: We establish emergency support groups and incident management teams around the world to develop and practice emergency response strategies. In 2017, we conducted 37 drills, including in Guyana where we have discovered an estimated recoverable resource of over four billion oil equivalent barrels.OIMS also establishes a framework for addressing risk across our supply chain. Contractors are an integral part of the ExxonMobil team; it is essential that they conduct work in accordance with our policies and business objectives. Since 2000, we have conducted safety leadership forums with contractors working on our major projects. This promotes a strong safety partnership with contract workers to improve our safety performance and positively influence the industry.The success of ExxonMobil’s operations depends on a healthy and competent workforce. We have corporate-wide expectations for identifying, evaluating and managing health risks related to our operations that can potentially affect our employees, contractors or the public.  In each country, we develop workplace health programs that take into consideration local health care systems, health needs and available resources. ExxonMobil’s U.S.-based Culture of Health program supports the well-being of our employees and reduces health plan costs. We continue 
to look for new opportunities to expand the reach of our Culture of Health program. In 2017, we expanded the program to our affiliates in Brazil and Mexico.
Workforce engagementWe value the exceptional qualities and diverse perspectives of our employees and strive to promote the inclusion of thought, skill, knowledge and culture across our operations. As demand for workers in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics continues to increase, we support immigration policies that will help U.S. companies fill their needs for highly skilled workers.We support voluntary, employee-led networks that foster a culture of diversity and inclusion by offering development programs, community service opportunities and mentoring. Our local employee resource groups include: •	Asian Connection for Excellence (ACE)•	Black Employee Success Team (BEST)•	Global Organization for the Advancement of Latinos (GOAL)•	Organization for New Employees (ONE)•	People for Respect, Inclusion and Diversity of Employees (PRIDE)•	Veteran Advocacy and Support Team (VAST)•	Women’s Interest Network (WIN)We strive to foster innovation and progress across our operations by helping our employees reach their full potential. We offer robust corporate and technical training programs and encourage employee engagement through a variety of channels, including mentorship programs and networking opportunities. In 2017, more than 4,500 employees at various levels of the company participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training programs, of which 34 percent were women and 54 percent were employees from outside the United States.Our Global Diversity Framework and Standards of Business Conduct govern all aspects of our employment and support our commitment to provide equal employment opportunities, prohibit harassment and discrimination in the workplace and align with applicable laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. We send an annual letter to senior managers emphasizing their responsibility to maintain work environments free from harassment and discrimination. ExxonMobil employs a series of web-based trainings and tools to help our employees understand cultural sensitivities across a diverse workforce. Every employee is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, for any act of harassment.Lost-time incident rate*Incidents per 200,000 work hours2008            2009            2010            2011            2012            2013            2014            2015            2016            2017ExxonMobil workforceU.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmarkIn 2017, our workforce lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.029, consistent with the previous year. Since 2000, we have reduced this rate by 80 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to outperform industry peers in safety performance. *Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information available at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors. Depending on the reporting year, around 2 to 13 percent of the incidents are illness-related.0.200.150.100.050Safety, health and the workplace2017 female and minority career developmentWorldwide femalesU.S. minorities59%31%Campus new hires for professional positions   41% since 2010  12% since 201026%34%Leadership training participation*22%31%Senior leadership potential  18% since 2010  17% since 201016%20%Executive
population  58% since 2010  43% since 2010We consider diversity through all stages of the employment relationship, including recruitment, training and development of our future leaders.*The number of leadership training courses and participation varies by year.Safety, health and the workplaceDerrek Lathon, marine dock supervisor, communicating equipment observations with his team at the ExxonMobil 
Baton Rouge refinery.Explore moreDrones enhance safety inspections across 
the companyexxonmobil.com/dronesafetyinspectionWorking toward continuous improvement 
of process safetyexxonmobil.com/safetyimprovementEmergency preparedness and response 
in Guyanaexxonmobil.com/guyanaemergencypreparednessExxonMobil’s Houston campus reaches sustainability milestoneexxonmobil.com/houstoncampussustainability152017 Sustainability Report HighlightsManaging the risks of 
climate changeWe are committed to providing affordable energy to empower human progress and improve standards of living while advancing effective solutions to address climate change. ExxonMobil believes the risks of climate change warrant action.Our climate change risk management strategy consists of four pillars: mitigating emissions in our operations, developing scalable technology solutions, providing customer solutions that reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and engaging on climate change policy.“Climate change is a complex issue requiring global participation and solutions. In my role, I apply my technical, operational and regulatory background to evaluate strategies and partnerships to progress new solutions, an important factor in improving our emissions performance.”Sufang Zhao
Environmental policy and planning analyst, Exxon Mobil CorporationAbove: Sona Joseph, a research analyst, running computer models at the Upstream Research Company lab 
in Spring, Texas. Managing the risks of climate changeMitigating emissions from our operationsWe are working to increase energy efficiency and reduce flaring, venting and other emissions in our operations. We expect our greenhouse gas reduction measures to lead to a 15 percent decrease in methane emissions and a 25 percent reduction in flaring by 2020. We also expect to further improve our industry-leading efficiency in refining and chemical manufacturing facilities.In 2017, ExxonMobil and our subsidiary XTO Energy established a methane management program that exceeds applicable regulations. The program prioritizes actions at the highest-volume production and midstream sites and includes efforts to develop and deploy new, more efficient technologies to detect and reduce facility emissions.Along with several industry peers, we issued Guiding Principles, which provide a framework for continually reducing methane emissions, improving accuracy of methane emissions data and advocating sound policies and regulations.Other ways we are reducing emissions include deploying proven technologies such as cogeneration and carbon capture and storage. Longer term, we are conducting and supporting research to further develop breakthrough technologies. For information on how ExxonMobil manages the business risks of climate change, including energy demand sensitivities, implications of 2 degree Celsius scenarios and positioning for a lower-carbon future, please see ExxonMobil’s Energy and Carbon Summary.
Developing technology solutionsTechnological advancements will be instrumental to meet rising global energy demand while also lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We are conducting scientific research to enhance existing and develop next-generation energy sources. ExxonMobil has spent more than $9 billion on lower-emission energy solutions since 2000. At the center of our research is ExxonMobil’s Corporate Strategic Research laboratory, a fundamental research institution with approximately 170 PhD scientists and engineers focused on addressing the company’s long-range science needs. We support a diverse portfolio of in-house research projects, including next-generation biofuels, carbon capture and storage, alternative energy and climate science. ExxonMobil is partnering with approximately 80 universities around the world to explore new energy technologies.In carbon capture, we are conducting research to find ways to improve existing technologies. One project, with FuelCell Energy, is focused on reducing the cost of capturing carbon by using carbonate fuel cells that generate power while capturing carbon. We are identifying potential locations for pilot testing. ExxonMobil has extensive experience in carbon capture and has a working interest in more than one-fifth of the world’s total carbon capture and storage capacity. In 2017, we captured approximately 6.6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide for storage. We are also conducting extensive research on biofuels. In 2017, ExxonMobil and Synthetic Genomics, Inc. announced breakthrough research involving a modified algae strain that more than doubled its oil content without significantly inhibiting growth, a key challenge along the path to commercial scalability. We recently announced a new research phase of this project that could lead to the production of 10,000 barrels of algae biofuel per day by 2025. The new phase of research includes an outdoor field study that will grow naturally occurring algae in several ponds in California.
Providing solutions for customers In addition to developing and deploying technologies to reduce emissions from our own operations, we are working to help our customers reduce their emissions. Our goal is to develop solutions that are economically competitive and affordable, including:  Expanding the supply of cleaner-burning natural gas to reduce emissions in power generation: The use of natural gas in power generation represents one of the greatest opportunities for society to reduce emissions and transition to a lower greenhouse gas-intensive energy system. ExxonMobil is one of the largest natural gas producers in the world and is a leader in liquefied natural gas technology. Creating lightweight plastics and other materials for a range of consumer products: ExxonMobil’s next-generation plastic packaging reduces total product weight and enables more products per shipment, fewer trucks on the road, less fuel and energy used, fewer greenhouse gas emissions and ultimately less material to be reused, recovered or recycled. For example, for every 10 percent drop in vehicle weight, fuel economy improves by an estimated 7 percent. We recognize plastic waste is an issue for societies, and ExxonMobil is engaged with diverse industries in helping to identify solutions.Developing premium, high-efficiency fuels and lubricants: Our family of high-performance lubricants includes synthetic lubricants like Mobil 1™ Annual Protection that need to be replaced less frequently than conventional motor oils, therefore reducing the volume of used oil for disposal or recycling. Our lubricants and greases are also used in more than 40,000 wind turbines worldwide.
Engaging on climate change policyClimate change is a global issue that requires the collaboration of governments, companies, consumers and other stakeholders. We engage a variety of stakeholders on climate change issues — including policymakers, investors, consumers, nongovernmental organizations, academics and the public — to advocate for responsible policies that would be effective in addressing the risks of climate change.ExxonMobil supports the Paris Agreement as an important framework for addressing the risks of climate change. We welcomed the Paris Agreement when it was announced in December 2015, and again when it came into effect in November 2016. We have reiterated our support to government officials, nongovernmental organizations and the broader public.  Free markets, innovation and technology are essential in addressing the risks of climate change. Success in developing and deploying technologies will be highly dependent on governments creating a policy environment that enables innovation and competition. Policies should be clear and guard against duplicative, overlapping and conflicting regulations, which may distort markets and impose unnecessary costs on consumers. We believe an effective policy response to climate change requires a thorough understanding of the climate system. Our scientists have been involved in climate change research and related policy analysis for more than 35 years, resulting in hundreds of publicly available documents on climate-related topics, including more than 50 peer-reviewed publications.We believe that effective policies are those that:•	Promote global participation;•	Let market prices drive the selection of solutions;•	Ensure a uniform and predictable cost of greenhouse gas emissions across the economy;•	Minimize complexity and administrative costs;•	Maximize transparency; and•	Provide flexibility to react to developments in technology, climate science and policy.ExxonMobil is a founding member of the Climate Leadership Council. The Council was created by former U.S. Secretaries of State George P. Shultz and James A. Baker, III to advocate for a carbon tax that would implement a gradually increasing price on carbon. The revenues generated by the plan would be returned to American energy consumers. In 2018, we joined the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a voluntary initiative representing 13 of the world’s largest oil and gas producers working collaboratively toward solutions to mitigate the risks of climate change.

Climate risk oversightExxonMobil’s board of directors is responsible for risk oversight, including the risks of climate change. The board routinely reviews and considers these risks, including briefings on public policy, scientific and technical research, as well as company and external positions and actions in this area. Climate-related matters are also considered by the board throughout the year in various other contexts, including reviews of the Outlook for Energy, the company’s safety, health and environmental performance, the annual corporate planning process, shareholder proposals and regulatory filings such as the 10-K.Greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions*Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions
Millions of metric tons1601401201008060402002008            2009            2010            2011            2012            2013            2014            2015            2016            2017ActualAvoided*In 2017, greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions were 23.4 million metric tons. Since 2008, we have avoided 168 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions as a result of ExxonMobil actions. Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in American Petroleum Institute’s Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry and IPIECA’s Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions. We report greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis for our business operations, demonstrating a share of emissions from any facility or operation in which ExxonMobil holds a financial interest, with the share reflecting the equity interest. Managing the risks of climate changeEmissions reduction> $9Binvested to develop lower-emission energy solutions since 2000> $4 Billion> $2 Billion> $3 Billioninvested since 2000 at our Upstream facilities around the 
world on emission reduction 
efforts, including energy efficiency and flare mitigationinvested since 2000 in our refining and chemical facilities and enabling research around the world to reduce greenhouse gas emissionsin support of Upstream, Downstream and Chemical cogeneration facilities since 2001 to more efficiently produce electricity and reduce greenhouse gas emissionsManaging the risks of climate changeSynthetic Genomics, Inc. and ExxonMobil are working together to turn algae into a low-emission transportation fuel.Explore more2018 ExxonMobil Energy and Carbon Summary exxonmobil.com/ecsummaryPartnering with Singapore universities to innovate lower-emission technologiesexxonmobil.com/singaporeuniversitiesTaking action to manage methane emissions exxonmobil.com/managemethaneemissions2017 Sustainability Report Highlights19Environmental performanceOur diverse portfolio of projects requires us to work in remote and sensitive environments including Arctic, deepwater and biodiverse locations. ExxonMobil considers a full range of potential environmental and social risks associated with the lifecycle of our operations and products. In doing so, we gain a holistic understanding of our impacts from initial exploration activities to decommissioning.  “ExxonMobil is committed to excellence in environmental performance. It takes every single one of us, every day. It’s simply how we work.”Kylie Bishop
Environmental engineer, ExxonMobil Chemical ScotlandAbove: ExxonMobil is working to help protect the Scheepmaker’s Crowned Pigeon, 
a threatened species native to Papua New Guinea. 