Safety, Health, and the Workplace hiGhLiGhts 10%  98%  40  reduction in  of tested workers  technical scholarships  lost-time  were compliant  awarded and 1263 global  incident rate  with anti-malarial  internships and co-op  drug regimens  assignments sponsored  perforMance overview  what we said in 2009 • implement proposed enhancements to personnel safety metrics and stewardship processes • implement leading process safety metrics • deploy enhancements introduced through the 2009 updates to the Operations Integrity Management System (oiMs) framework • participate in cross industry efforts to understand precursors for serious injuries and fatalities • continue to attract, develop, and retain a premier workforce from the broadest possible pool of talent what we did in 2010 • enhanced leading and lagging process safety metrics and conducted a personnel safety study • continued to lead industry with com bined contractor and employee workforce lost time incident rates at best ever levels • deployed enhancements to the oiMs framework • participated in cross industry efforts to understand precursors for serious injuries and fatalities • participated in joint industry task forces to learn from the spill in the Gulf of Mexico • hired 2474 professional employees what we plan to do • Learn from personnel and process safety metrics for continuous improvement • deploy recommendations from the personnel safety study • evaluate deployment of oiMs enhance ments at the assessable unit level • conclude cross industry efforts to understand precursors for serious injuries and fatalities and develop effective prevention strategies • expand the Culture of Health initiative across the united states • identify the best candidates for an increasingly diverse workforce through practical work experience, scholarships, and internships 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 13 Safety and operations integrity are the foundations of ExxonMobil’s business. Nothing is more important. Safety, security, and health management We hold our commitment to excellence in safety, security, and health in the workplace as a core value—one that shapes decision making at every level. This commitment is documented in our safety, health, and product safety policies and security expecta.tions, which are implemented through our OIMS Framework (see page 18). Both con.tractors and employees are required to follow these expectations as a condition of employ.ment. In 2010, we deployed enhancements to the OIMS Framework, including expectations related to leadership, process safety, and assessment of OIMS effectiveness. Personnel safety In 2010, we once again recorded best-ever combined employee and contractor workforce lost-time incident rates. We have reduced our workforce lost-time incident rate by an average of 9 percent per year since 2006 and 10 percent from 2009 to 2010. A key driver in this performance improvement is the expectation that all workers take action when they observe a coworker who may be in an at-risk situation. Where applicable, our recognition programs reinforce this proactive engagement. However, we are saddened to report that we experienced three worker fatalities in 2010. We thoroughly investigated the causes and contributing factors associated with each incident to learn from them and to prevent similar events in the future. We have also joined cross-industry working groups with representatives from oil and gas and other industries to better understand the precur.sors to serious injuries and fatalities. The contractor safety in singapore groups aim to develop a set of principles, criteria, and methods for more effective intervention to prevent serious injuries and fatalities. We will not be satisfied until we achieve our goal of a workplace where Nobody Gets Hurt. It is our responsibility to ensure that every individual who works at one of our sites returns home as safe and sound as when he or she reported to work. personnel safety study. Achieving Nobody Gets Hurt in the workplace requires us to continuously assess and enhance our systems, programs, and practices. Experience has demonstrated that each enhancement can lead to a period of significant improvement, often followed by a plateau in performance at an improved incident rate. Recognizing this, we conducted a personnel safety study to identify new strategies to further improve our safety performance. Over the course of the study, the team identified two principal themes: the importance of leadership behavior and the role of performance metrics. In 2010, we promoted the concept of “actively caring” for coworkers. This further estab.lishes an environment where workers will approach each other when they see potential hazards or unsafe behaviors, regardless of whether the worker is a supervisor, experi.enced employee, or contractor. In addition, we are emphasizing safety leadership behaviors relevant to roles, workplaces, and organizations in training and coaching sessions. For example, in 2010, more than 1000 employees and contractors partici.pated in safety leadership workshops in the Development, Production, Chemical, and Refining and Supply Companies. Another emerging theme identified in the study is that traditional safety reporting and measurement based on incident rates and percentages alone may not always help drive improvement. To make safety more personal, we are expanding the use of a new metric, which captures all incidents, including first-aid and minor incidents. By adding a personal element, this metric will better communicate the real meaning of Nobody Gets Hurt. It will also enhance our “reporting culture” and our ability to capture, analyze, and learn from incidents with significant potential conse.quences, rather than just those with actual consequences. We aim not only to analyze safety incidents after they happen, but also to identify exposures and at-risk behaviors before they lead to safety incidents. addressing human factors. Because many of our employees and contractors work in shifts around the clock in diverse operations and locations, we recognize the important role of human factors in reducing workplace risks. These human factors may include worker fatigue, ergonomic consider.ations, and physical and mental demands. Our Human Factors Technology Center of Excellence supports ongoing efforts to incorporate human factors technology into engineering design and construction, work.place layout, safety systems and practices, and behavior-based systems. Incident investigation and analysis revealed employee awareness of potential hazards is often a significant contributor to the prevention of incidents. Our behavior-based safety approach, outlined in the Loss Prevention System, provides employees with consistent tools to identify and mitigate risks associated with specific tasks, to The Singapore Parallel Train (SPT) project workforce is very diverse, with employees and contractors hailing from 30 countries and speaking more than eight languages. To safely complete the project, we introduced a variety of training tools to align this large and diverse contractor workforce with our high safety standards. Our on-site SPT Safety Training Center provides an Enhanced Safety Orientation Course that must be completed before any worker gains access to the site. The course is conducted in eight languages and provides training in construction safety, oil and petrochemical safety, and basic safety standards. Since 2008, more than 70,000 workers have received training through the center. At the existing Singapore Chemical and Refining manufacturing sites, we intro.duced the Contractor Supervisor Safety Leadership Initiative in 2009 to train all con.tractor supervisors in safety leadership and communication. In addition to site-specific training, a one-day Contractor Supervisor Safety Workshop (CSSW) is required to receive certification as a contractor supervisor. The CSSW focuses on basic roles and responsibilities and reinforces the safety mindset. Other training modules are delivered as needed and cover such topics as hazard recognition and working at heights. Since the program’s implementation in 2009, more than 500 contractor supervisors have received safety training through the initiative. ExxonMobil safety management values are now widely applied by supervi.sors, and the use of safety and equipment checklists for work planning and execution has also improved. 14 exxonmobil.com Lost-Time Incident Rate1 (incidents per 200,000 work hours) ExxonMobil employees ExxonMobil contractors API U.S. petroleum industry employee benchmark 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Total Recordable Incident Rate1 (incidents per 200,000 work hours) ExxonMobil employees ExxonMobil contractors API U.S. petroleum industry employee benchmark 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 1Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information available at the time of publication. a culture of safety conduct self-assessments while working, to observe others and provide feedback on their behaviors (see below), and to analyze losses and near-losses. By identifying and preventing at-risk behaviors, the likelihood of incidents occurring or escalating can often be greatly reduced. In 2010, many sites launched efforts to further engage employ.ees and contractors in behavior-based safety systems. Process safety Effective process safety management leads to the prevention of uncontrolled releases of hydrocarbons, chemicals, and other sub.stances. Failure to contain these substances can lead to significant incidents such as fires and explosions, with potential for serious injuries and fatalities, widespread environ.mental impacts, and property damage. Our process safety management framework focuses on reducing risks and incidents through OIMS, including facility design and operation. We continuously seek to improve these areas by learning from incidents and near-misses in our own operations and across our industry. We are committed to learning lessons from the tragic Deepwater Horizon incident and are working with joint industry task forces to develop improved prevention, containment, and response plans. In 2010, we implemented new process safety metrics to enhance our ability to learn from all levels of incidents. At our facilities, we focus on best practices in design, mechanical integrity, and upgrades using advanced technologies. In our operations, we focus on training employees in process safety and effective procedures, including best practices for our higher-risk activities, such as start-up and shut-down of operations when maintenance is conducted (see OIMS case study, page 19). Risk management and emergency preparedness Risks associated with safety, security, health, and the environment are inherent in our business. ExxonMobil takes a disciplined approach to business continuity planning and emergency preparedness. Emergency Support Groups—comprising business lines; human resources; law; finance; safety, secu.rity, health, and environment; public affairs; and other technical advisors—develop and exercise emergency response strategies. Emergency Response Teams are organized at local and regional levels to respond to incidents as needed. Effective preparedness is dependent on training. Response team training includes orientation, simulations, and full exercises. Every site conducts emergency drills on a frequent basis, ranging from routine fire drills to full-scale exercises. In 2010, compre.hensive drills were conducted in Angola, Barbados, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, Germany, Guam, and the United States. These drills often involve 100 or more representatives from ExxonMobil; local affiliates; local, state, and federal gov.ernments; and industry. To be fully effective and to drive sustained safety performance improvements, we pro.actively develop a safety culture grounded in leadership at every level of the organization. Leadership   Safety Culture   Employee Behavior   Safety Performance   Workplaces where Nobody Gets Hurt  djekilamber Mbainade Contracted pipefitter, Chad The day’s appointed safety observer Each morning, the supervisor designates a new safety observer. Today, it was me so I had the job of leading the morning toolbox safety meeting. This morning, we talked about personal protective equipment needed for today’s work, expected hazards, and then we did a “step back 5x5.” That’s a procedure where we all talk about hazards and what to do about them before begin.ning a task. Then I watched closely all day. I guard the safety of my friends. While they concentrate on work, I concentrate on their safety. I have the power to stop the work if I see something happening where I can help. Even though my job is pipefitter, we all learn all the time about safety, how we can keep ourselves and our team members safe. Workplace security At ExxonMobil, Security is Everybody’s Business. We provide security and safe.guards to protect our people, facilities, business information, and other assets. In 2010, we completed a multiyear, comprehen.sive project to strengthen security at our facilities globally. For more information about security at ExxonMobil, see page 47. Employee health A healthy workforce benefits our business and the broader community. At ExxonMobil, we provide programs and services to help our employees live healthier lives. We incorporate workforce and community health considerations into project planning (see pages 39 and 41). Participation in prevention programs is key to maintaining a healthy workforce and respond.ing to emerging health issues. In 2010, a cholera outbreak occurred in Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea. In response, we estab.lished a cholera response working group to identify measures to prevent further spread of the disease. Initiatives like publishing prevention-related materials for employees and contractors, establishing a screening process upon camp entry, ensuring adequate handwashing facilities, and establishing cholera triage areas prevented the spread of cholera to project worksites. Through a part.nership with the Salvation Army, the project also helped establish a community cholera care clinic in Port Moresby. workplace Malaria Control Program. Approximately half of the world’s population live in areas at risk of malaria transmission. ExxonMobil has established strong busi.ness partnerships to effectively protect employees and contractors working in malaria-prone areas. Our Malaria Control Program comprehensively combats malaria through awareness, mosquito bite prevention, preventive medication, and early diagnosis and treatment. Insecticide use is kept to a minimum to protect the health of our workers and to minimize environmental impacts. We track employee and contractor inci.dences of malaria in eight countries with upstream operations. In 2010, 11 malaria cases were reported out of the thousands of nonimmune workers located in or visiting endemic areas. Approximately 98 percent of workers tested were compliant with preven.tive drug regimens. To learn about our efforts to create healthy communities, see page 41. employee StopAIDS. Our workplace HIV/ AIDS program, StopAIDS, combines risk mitigation education with access to com.munity-based care and treatment to keep healthy workers disease-free and to educate HIV-positive workers on living safely with the illness. ExxonMobil does not test for HIV, and HIV status is not a factor in determining an employee’s ability to work. More broadly, in December 2010, ExxonMobil affiliates in Nigeria and Papua New Guinea supported World AIDS Day. Activities to 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 15 commemorate the day included employee and contractor communications from senior managers, educational leaflets, souvenirs, and donations to local health centers. Product stewardship and product safety We actively identify and evaluate ways to miti.gate possible effects of our products on both people and the environment while improving product performance. During the development of, and prior to marketing our products, we assess safety, health, and environmental (SHE) aspects as well as compliance with product safety legislation, both where the products are made and in their intended markets. Rigorous assessments required by government authorities are conducted and updated as new information becomes available to assure the safety of a new or modified product. Products used in particular markets, such as those that come in contact with food, undergo additional SHE assessments as appropriate. In addition, we provide information to those who transport, use, and dispose of our prod.ucts, including appropriate uses, potential product stewardship in the chemical business Increasingly, our customers look to us to help them achieve their sustainability goals. In 2008, we created our Chemical Research Sustainability Team, which is responsible for conducting life cycle analyses (LCA) to support every Chemical business unit. LCAs allow us to evaluate product benefits and to design products in response to customer demands. Typically, an LCA study can take from three to more than 12 months to complete, depending on the breadth and complexity of the project. In 2007, a European Union (EU) regula.tion for chemicals manufactured or used in EU member states went into effect. The REACH regulation requires manufacturers or importers to register and provides the European Chemical Agency with the right to evaluate and authorize chemicals. In 2010, ExxonMobil submitted more than 500 dossiers covering all substances needing registration by the 2010 regulatory deadline. We are now focused on updat.ing our Safety Data Sheets and preparing dossiers for lower-volume substances with 2013 and 2018 registration deadlines. The objectives of REACH are aligned with our commitment to product stewardship and accessibility of information. Through the International Council of Chemical Associations, ExxonMobil Chemical promotes the safe management of chemicals as outlined in the principles of the Global Product Strategy. We support voluntary programs such as Responsible Care® and the Global Product Strategy in developing regions of the world. 16 exxonmobil.com health and environmental effects, personal protection and exposure controls, first aid measures, and disposal considerations. Through a disciplined surveillance process, we tailor our product safety warnings to comply with current and emerging local regulations. In 2010, more than 400,000 Safety Data Sheets covering more than 130,000 unique products were distributed to customers in more than 85 languages. OIMS and other management systems ensure compliance with product steward.ship regulations in more than 150 countries. Our Product Stewardship Information Management System (PSIMS) applies common global processes and a single global computer system to capture and communicate information on the safe han.dling, transport, use, and disposal of our products. PSIMS incorporates more than 5000 automated assessments to consis.tently appraise product characteristics and uses for compliance with existing global laws and regulations, and to provide respon.sible standards to specify precautions where laws and regulations do not exist or are considered inadequate. Employment policies and practices Our employment practices are governed by our Standards of Business Conduct, which support our commitment to equal employ.ment opportunity, prohibit harassment and discrimination in the workplace, and are con.sistent with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate. policies against discrimination and harass.ment. Any form of discrimination by or toward employees, contractors, suppliers, and customers in any ExxonMobil workplace is strictly prohibited. Our global, zero-tolerance policy applies to all forms of discrimination, including discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. Harassment, even in its most subtle forms, is in direct conflict with company policy and will not be tolerated. All employees are subject to disciplinary action up to, and including, termination for any act of harassment. We have deployed a comprehensive education, training, and stewardship program to ensure this policy is understood, implemented, and followed by our employees throughout our worldwide operations. Each affiliate has adopted ExxonMobil’s global standards, with modifications as required for compliance with country law. employee benefits and programs. We provide all employees with a competitive package of benefits and programs, which varies based on the legal requirements and culture of countries. Benefit coverage for spouses is based on legally recognized spousal relationships in the individual coun.tries where we operate. In the United States, we have adopted the definition of spouse used in federal law, which provides benefits to heterosexual couples. Employees in coun.tries where national law recognizes same-sex relationships are provided spousal benefits under ExxonMobil programs. We take our benefit plan commitments seri.ously. The funding levels of all qualified pension plans are in compliance with standards set by applicable law or regulation. All defined benefit pension obligations are fully supported by the financial strength of the Corporation or the respective sponsoring affiliate. employee engagement. ExxonMobil seeks to create an environment of open communi.cation with our more than 83,000 employees. During the annual performance assessment and development process, all employees have a structured, documented discussion with their supervisors about work goals, training objectives, and development needs. This process provides the basis for ongoing employee coaching and continuous perform.ance improvement. Employees are actively developed throughout the course of their careers with training, mentoring, and oppor.tunities to join professional networks. Engagement with senior management takes place in the form of employee forums, where senior managers engage with employees on many topics such as business or safety performance, public policy, and long-term planning. During these forums, employees may ask questions on any topic. In 2010, Management Committee members and the presidents of the functional companies held more than 25 meetings with employees. In 2010, ExxonMobil and XTO Energy Inc. com.pleted an all-stock transaction to create a new organization focused on global development building a Culture of Health In the United States, our ExxonMobil medical plan includes a program, Partners in Health, to help employees and their families manage long-term health by focus.ing on disease management, prevention, and lifestyle habits. In addition to these Partners in Health tools, from 2009 to 2010, a Culture of Health pilot program was implemented at the Brookhollow office complex in Houston, Texas, and the Joliet Refinery in Illinois to expand opportunities for employees to identify health risks and adopt healthier lifestyles. Many employees took advantage of the online health assessment, on-site biometric screenings, and one-on-one telephone calls with health coaches. On-site programs such as physical activity challenges and weight-loss support groups encouraged a culture of health in the workplace. In 2011, an expansion of this program is expected in the United States. We foster a work environment that treats all employees with respect, values unique perspectives, encourages individual growth and achievement, and rewards people based on their performance. and production of unconventional natural gas resources. ExxonMobil and XTO personnel worked alongside each other in a transition team in Fort Worth, Texas, to prepare the merged company for operations. ExxonMobil and XTO management have taken all neces.sary steps to ensure that our colleagues at XTO understand how important they are to the success of the new organization. diversity. Our global reach is evident in more than just our physical locations. The diversity and inclusion of thought, skill, knowledge, and culture of our global workforce make us more competitive, more resilient, and better able to navigate the complex and constantly changing global energy business. Our Global Workforce Diversity Framework is intended to attract, develop, and retain a premier workforce; actively foster a work environment where individual and cultural differences are respected and valued; and identify and develop leadership capabilities of employees to perform effectively in a variety of environ.ments. Local employee networks exist in various locations and provide a positive, informal environment for career develop.ment information, act as an advisory group to management, build cultural awareness, and support community outreach. At year-end 2010, about 40 percent of our employees were located within the United States and 60 percent internationally. In 2010, approximately 34 percent of our executives were non-U.S. employees. We hired more than 2400 management and professional employees worldwide, of whom approximately 70 percent were outside the United States. ExxonMobil promotes leadership opportuni.ties for women globally to improve the gender balance within our company. Currently, women account for about 26 percent of our worldwide workforce, excluding company-operated retail stores. In 2010, 40 percent of management and pro.fessional new hires were women, significantly higher than the percentage of women in our broader employee population. Approximately 14 percent of executive employees world.wide are women, compared to 13 percent in 2009. One significant challenge in attaining gender balance in technology companies like ExxonMobil is a long-standing trend of fewer women selecting college majors and careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. ExxonMobil is supporting efforts to make access to science, technol.ogy, engineering, and mathematics education more widely available, particularly to women and minorities in the United States (see pages 42 and 43). We are also working to increase the representation of minorities, including African-Americans, Hispanics, Asians, and Native Americans, in our U.S. operations. For example, our hiring programs include outreach to ensure diverse candidates are identified. Based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reporting, minorities comprised approximately one-third of our U.S. workforce and 21 percent of officials and managers in 2010. On the Web: Safety and health policies exxonmobil.com/managementsystems ExxonMobil Malaria Initiative exxonmobil.com/health Global citizenship stories exxonmobil.com/globalstories Safety, health, and environment awards exxonmobil.com/awards U.S. employment diversity data exxonmobil.com/diversity 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 17 Management and Professional New Hires Percent women  Percent outside the United States  07 08 09 10  38% 39% 38% 40%  07 08 09 10  71% 69% 63% 70%  2010 Percent Female Management and Professional New Hires by Geographic Region Worldwide total Asia Pacific Latin America Europe United States North America (excluding United States) Africa/Middle East 40% 47% 45% 44% 33% 32% 31% 2010 Percent Women and Minorities by Position in the United States Based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reporting Officials and managers Professionals Total employees 19% 30% 30% Women 21% 23% 32% Minorities 2010 Workforce by Geographic Region* (thousands of employees) Total workforce 83.6 United States 33.2 Europe 18.4 Asia Pacific 16.0 Canada 6.9 Latin America 4.7 Africa/Middle East 4.4 *Data exclude company-operated retail store employees and include XTO Energy Inc. employees following the June 2010 all-stock transaction with ExxonMobil. 18 exxonmobil.com Operations Integrity Management System ExxonMobil’s approach to ensuring integrity in our operations was fundamentally influenced by the 1989 Valdez oil spill. The accident triggered a re-evaluation of our understanding of risk management at a fundamental level. Today, a comprehensive Framework—called the Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS)—underpins every operating decision we make. A key outcome of the Valdez oil spill was the realization that safety is more than a priority. It must be a value that shapes our decision making at every level of the organization. Ensuring this vision was incorporated into our day-to-day activities required a top-to-bottom review of all operations with the intention of reorganizing the company to make safety—of people, facilities, and the environment—the center of decision making. ExxonMobil’s goal of driving accidents and incidents to zero has not yet been achieved, but through OIMS we continue to pursue it. The OIMS Framework The OIMS Framework establishes common worldwide expectations for addressing safety, security, health, environmental, and social risk in every aspect of our business. OIMS guides the activities of more than 83,000 employees and roughly an equal number of third-party contractors around the world. OIMS does not just provide over.sight; it fundamentally drives our operations from top to bottom. Through OIMS, ExxonMobil monitors, benchmarks, and measures our perform.ance. OIMS consists of 11 separate Elements that address all aspects of management (see graphic). The standard 11 Elements and 65 Expectations included in OIMS are the same for all employees, no matter where they are in the organization. From there, it is the responsibility of the businesses to supplement the Framework by establishing and maintaining guidelines relevant to their specific activities. Finally, local management systems provide addi.tional guidance, including processes and procedures, responsible and accountable resources, and feedback mechanisms for continuous improvement. A critical component of the OIMS Framework is assessment and improvement. OIMS requires us to regularly evaluate our opera.tions. Approximately 50 to 70 assessments are conducted annually, performed not only by trained safety, security, health, and environmental experts, but by cross-functional, cross-regional teams. In this way, the knowledge and observations employees gain are taken back to their jobs and spread across the organization. To further drive continuous improvement, the Framework is periodically updated to address learnings, often based on internal or external events that need to be institutional.ized and embedded into the Framework. Success factors Many other companies have similar systems in place, some of which were influenced by OIMS. The unique aspect of OIMS is the degree to which the system is integrated into our day-to-day operations. One of the greatest benefits of OIMS is that it enables ExxonMobil—a large organization that operates across diverse cultures and geogra.phies—to speak the same language when it comes to safety and risk management. OIMS is part of our culture. Its components allow our employees to drive our organiza.tion’s success. Our goal is not simply to follow procedures. A culture of compliance the blackbeard well: element 2 -risk assessment and Management and element 7 -Management of change ExxonMobil’s systematic and disciplined approach serves as a critical tool to manage the risks associated with oil and gas exploration and development. In September 2006, drilling efforts were underway on a challenging exploration well in the Gulf of Mexico called Blackbeard, where seismic reports suggested the presence of approximately 1 billion barrels of oil and gas. In accordance with OIMS Element 2 (Risk Assessment and Management), an extensive risk assessment was conducted prior to starting the operation in order to identify potential hazards—everything from hur.ricanes to the location of underground formations. From that risk assessment, we developed a project plan that included specific risk mitigation procedures. After drilling to a depth of more than 30,000 feet and investing $187 million, measurements indicated higher pressures than previously predicted, increasing the risk of continued drilling. OIMS Element 7 (Management of Change) requires that once the drilling plan has commenced, any change in the plan must be evaluated, approved, and documented. Taking into account the potential well pressure, we assessed risks and evaluated mitigation strategies. After management review, we concluded that the level of risk associated with continued drilling outweighed the potential benefits. Drilling operations were discontinued and the well was safely abandoned. 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 19 Eleven Elements of OIMS Driver 2 Risk Assessment and Management 5 Personnel and Training Management Leadership, Commitment, and Accountability 8 Third-party Services Operations 3 Facilities Design and Construction 6 Operations and Maintenance 9 Incident Investigation and Analysis 4 Evaluation Information/ Documentation 11 7 Management of Change Operations Integrity Assessment and Improvement 10 Community Awareness and Emergency Preparedness alone can lead to complacency. We seek to create a culture in which employees meet and challenge procedures so they can be improved when needed. The 11 Elements of OIMS are fundamental to safe and responsible operations. But the first and last Elements—Management Leadership, Commitment, and Accountability and Operations Integrity Assessment and Improvement—are perhaps the most critical. Without leadership by example and without thoughtful, honest, and objective self-assessment, no system is sustainable. Our journey toward achieving zero incidents is far from complete, but we have made sig.nificant progress. More importantly, we are dedicated to learning until we do achieve our vision of a workplace where Nobody Gets Hurt, where Security is Everybody’s Business, and where our environmental performance can Protect Tomorrow. Today. On the Web: OIMS Framework exxonmobilsafety.com safely shutting down and restarting operations: element 6 -operations and Maintenance ExxonMobil’s manufacturing sites regu.larly conduct large-scale maintenance efforts called turnarounds, which can range in scope from a single piece of equipment to an entire facility. During a turnaround, relevant components are shut down, inspected, upgraded, and then restarted. Experience shows that these periods of nonroutine activity can pose greater potential for safety and environmental incidents. OIMS Element 6 provides detailed tools and checklists to reduce the potential for error by providing a systematic process to ensure hazards are identified, procedures are clear and understood, and controls are in place. In 2010, the Baytown Refinery in Texas conducted its largest-ever turnaround. The event required approximately 3500 contractors and more than 450 employees to work more than 1.8 million hours on six units. In anticipation of the large influx of personnel and work activity on-site, a special safety campaign was implemented. The turnaround manage.ment team conducted a comprehensive risk analysis and developed risk manage.ment procedures. They also used peer reviews, daily and weekly safety meetings, and recognition programs to reinforce and sustain the safety culture. By the end of the turnaround, only one record-able incident occurred, involving a minor finger injury. As part of our commitment to safety, we held a mandatory contrac.tor safety stand-down to discuss and review incident prevention tools. Lessons learned from this turnaround were also shared with other sites in an effort to drive incidents to zero. 20 exxonmobil.com Corporate Governance hiGhLiGhts 33+ thousand employees received anti-corruption training perforMance overview 81% of outstanding shares represented at the Corporation’s Annual Meeting 10out of10 rating from GovernanceMetrics International, among top 1 percent of companies rated what we said in 2009 • continue recruiting highly qualified non employee director candidates • continue outreach to institutional and socially responsible or sustainable investors and other interested parties • participate in sustainable investment research analyst network (siran) calls on greenhouse gas emissions reduction technologies and other environmental, safety, and governance issues • review and update corporate policies and procedures based on requirements from the u.s. securities and exchange commission or congressional legislation what we did in 2010 • our shareholders elected two new non employee directors after one non employee director retired • enhanced engagement with socially responsible or sustainable investors and other interested parties through approxi mately 35 conference calls and meetings • participated in siran calls on deep water drilling and algae technology • expanded reporting in the proxy state ment on risk oversight by the board, the board s structure, and considerations for selecting board candidates • conducted anti corruption training worldwide for personnel who may interact with government agencies and officials what we plan to do • include management proposals on shareholder advisory votes on executive compensation in the 2011 proxy statement • continue recruiting highly qualified non employee director candidates • continue outreach to institutional and socially responsible or sustainable investors and other interested parties 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 21 Good corporate governance creates a climate conducive to long-term investments and underpins the foundation of sustainable economic growth. In an industry where business and investment decisions can have impacts for decades, the benefits of implementing strong corporate governance practices are also enduring. The methods we employ to achieve results are as important as the results themselves. We observe the highest standards of integrity and ethics to develop, approve, and imple.ment projects designed to be responsive to society’s present and future energy and petrochemical needs. Board of Directors Our Board of Directors provides indepen.dent oversight of the management of the Corporation. All directors stand for election at our Annual Meeting of Shareholders. At year-end 2010, 10 of 11 directors and all members of key Board committees, including the presiding director, were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) guidelines. In 2010, the Board of Directors met nine times and our Audit, Board Affairs, Compensation, and Public Issues and Contributions Committees each met between 5 and 11 times. The Board annually con.ducts group performance and effectiveness evaluations. Individual director performance reviews are not a part of this process. For more information about the Board, see our proxy statement. board structure. At this time, the Board believes the interests of all shareholders are best served through a leadership model with a combined chairman of the Board and chief executive officer (CEO). With more than 35 years of service, the current CEO possesses in-depth knowledge of the Corporation, putting him in the best position to provide broad leadership for the Board. The Board retains the author-board committees. Corporate citizenship topics fall under the purview of the Public Issues and Contributions, Board Affairs, and Compensation Committees and are routinely reviewed at Board and Board committee meetings. Risk oversight is the responsibility of the full Board. The committees help the Board carry out this responsibility by focusing on specific aspects of risk that are relevant to their com.mittee. Each committee’s charter is available on our Web site. diversity. Maintaining a Board of Directors that is diverse in gender, race, experience, geography, life experiences, and fields of expertise is a top priority for ExxonMobil. In 2010, the Board included female, African-American, and international perspectives. The Board Affairs Committee serves as the nominating committee and follows the Guidelines for the Selection of Non-Employee Directors that describe qualification criteria of directors. This committee considers recom.mendations from shareholders, directors, and others on director candidates and engages an executive search firm to help identify new director candidates. executive compensation. At ExxonMobil, the most senior executives—including the CEO, named executive officers, and about 1200 other U.S. executives—participate in a common compensation program. Compensation decisions for executives take into account several key criteria, including results in the areas of safety, security, health, and environmental performance. For example, ExxonMobil’s success in managing risk in these areas is achieved through emphasis on flawless execution of our OIMS Framework (see page 18), and executives understand that their compensation will reflect how effectively they implement this Framework. The design of the executive compensation program, including the long vesting requirements and risk of forfeiture of stock awards, ensures that senior executives have a strong financial incentive to protect the safety and security of our employees, the communities and environ.ment in which we operate, and the value of the company for shareholders. communicating with directors. ExxonMobil’s directors encourage open and transpar.ent communication. Key topics include executive compensation, environmental or other public issues, dividends, common stock price, gasoline prices, and corporate governance. The Corporate Governance page of our Web site allows individuals to send e-mails to our non-employee directors. Written letters can also be sent in care of the Secretary of the Corporation. Shareholder proposals and proxy statements Every year, shareholders submit propos.als regarding the company’s operations or corporate governance. Management and the Board consider these proposals and typically ity to separate the positions of chairman and CEO if deemed appropriate in the future.  2010 proxy vote summary  The independent members of the Board annually select an independent director to serve as presiding director, to act as a  proxy item Election of directors (average)2  percent vote in favor1 2010 2009 2008 95.3 97.5 96.8  liaison with the chairman, and to chair Board  Ratification of independent auditors2  98.9  98.5  98.0  meetings in his absence. Although this posi-Special shareholder meetings 36.8 40.8 -.tion is subject to annual elections, there is Incorporate in North Dakota 3.0 4.8 -.an expectation that the same director will Advisory vote on executive compensation 41.2 41.4 40.7 serve for at least two years. The presiding Amendment of Equal Employment Opportunity Policy 22.2 39.3 39.6 director chairs executive sessions of the non-employee directors and provides feed-Policy on water 6.7 ---.back to the chairman. All directors have the Wetlands restoration policy 9.1 ---.authority to call executive sessions, which  Report on Canadian oil sands  26.4  -. -. are regularly scheduled without manage.ment present, unless requested by the presiding director.  Report on natural gas production Report on energy technology Greenhouse gas emissions goals  26.3 6.7 27.2  -.-.29.0  -.9.4 30.9  Planning assumptions  7.8  -. -. 1Abstentions count for quorum purposes, but not toward voting on these proposals. 2Proposals submitted by the Board. 22 exxonmobil.com seek a dialogue with the proposal sponsor. If the dialogue successfully addresses the concerns of the sponsor, the proposal is often withdrawn. Otherwise and unless excluded under U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules, the proposal and the Board’s response and recommendation are published in our proxy statement for review at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. In 2010, about 3.8 billion—or nearly 81 percent —of the outstanding shares were rep.resented at the Corporation’s Annual Meeting. In 2010, actions taken related to issues reflected in shareholder propos.als included the development of a land conservation strategy and the doubling of certified wildlife habitat programs; drafting a public communication on oil sands; and refinement of a document highlighting best practices and chemical disclosures relating to natural gas production. Ethics ExxonMobil transacts business activities in nearly every country of the world, necessitat.ing regular training on international trade laws, including the anti-corruption and antitrust laws of the United States and other countries where we do business. All employees are expected to uphold high ethical standards and business integrity. They must comply with all applicable laws and accurately record and track all transactions. Employees are subject to disciplinary action up to, and including, termination for violations of our policies. Employees receive training on our ethics policy every four years through Business Practices Reviews, including a detailed review of our Standards of Business Conduct; implementation guidelines and procedures; and a review of antitrust, competition, and anti-corruption laws. These general training sessions, in addition to more comprehensive training given to relevant functions, are a requirement of employment at ExxonMobil. This training is supplemented by annual redistribution of the policy to ensure ongoing employee awareness. The next general review session is scheduled for 2012. Standards of Business Conduct. Our com.mitment to ethics creates a competitive advantage for the Corporation and helps ensure shareholder value. Our culture of ethical standards and compliance is documented in our Standards of Business Conduct, which foster the values of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption as outlined in the United Nations Global Compact. While ExxonMobil is not a formal signatory of the Global Compact, its values are key elements of our Standards. The Board of Directors has adopted and oversees the administration of the Standards—the foundation policies of the Corporation. The Standards articulate expectations and define the basis for the worldwide conduct of the Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries. Employees are expected to review the Standards each year. Disciplinary action is taken against any employee who violates these Standards. There are absolutely no excep.tions to this approach. internal audits. Regular internal audits and self-assessments help ensure the rigorous implementation of our control systems and Standards. ExxonMobil’s internal audit team annually audits about one-third of ExxonMobil’s operations, conducting detailed assessments of facilities, business units, personnel, and records, and thoroughly inves.tigating noncompliance with the Standards. bribery and corruption. We maintain our strong commitment to anti-corruption prac.tices in all of our operations worldwide. The Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Summary details our commitment to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and global anti-corruption conventions in all business relationships, including those with consultants, agents, and intermediaries. To ensure compliance, ExxonMobil employees and contractors are prohibited from making improper payments to, or engaging in improper transactions with, government officials to influence the performance of their official duties. As required under the FCPA, we maintain appropriate internal controls and keep accurate and complete records of the transactions in which we engage. In a few parts of the world, we conduct oil and gas exploration and production in remote areas where there may only be a limited number of local businesses and a small technically skilled population. Government structures and local business practices are sometimes closely linked through social and family relationships. In these challenging situations, ExxonMobil steadfastly upholds our commitment to full supplier standards Suppliers and contractors are expected to adhere to all local laws and regulations, as well as ExxonMobil policies, procedures, and prequalification requirements. This includes compliance with our requirements regarding safety, security, health, environ.ment, and human rights, as well as the principles of our Standards of Business Conduct. A contractor who violates our Standards will be in breach of contract and may be subject to contractual and legal remedies, including, in some cases, denial of access to our facilities and termination of the contract. Our procurement staff is trained to conduct prequalification assess.ments, which include anti-corruption due diligence; restricted parties screening; and standard legal terms and conditions, including human rights, labor practices, financial and operational qualifications, export restrictions, and security concerns, including the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism. 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 23 compliance with the FCPA and local laws, even if it requires extensive analysis of busi.ness relationships to ensure transparency. Our standard language for all contracts includes a requirement to comply with all laws and to keep accurate books and records, and where appropriate, contains specific anti-bribery commitments. For all new agreements and renewals, our procure.ment staff assesses baseline information obtained in procurement processes to recognize warning signs, and when neces.sary, consults the law department. In addition, procurement staff must comply with a mandatory screening process to ensure that proper anti-corruption due diligence is being performed on intermediaries in countries that are assessed to be high-risk for cor.ruption. This process involves identifying high-risk parties, gathering additional infor.mation on those parties, and consulting with the law department. training. Political and regulatory landscapes across the globe are constantly changing and require diligent anti-corruption training programs. In 2010, more than 33,000 employ.ees whose positions may require interaction with government agencies or officials received anti-corruption training. This training covered the basics of the FCPA, global anti-corruption standards, recent developments in enforcement, and compliance with internal anti-corruption guidelines and processes. Additionally, we monitor events and political changes and alert employees as appropri.ate. Every four years, all employees attend mandatory Business Practices Reviews that address anti-corruption issues (see Ethics, on page 22). reporting and investigating suspected violations. All employees are responsible for reporting any and all suspected violations of company policies. The Corporation provides several confidential mechanisms for report.ing, including a 24-hour hotline phone number and mailing address. It is a violation of the Corporation’s procedures for an employee to be penalized or threatened in any way after filing a report. A Hotline Steering Committee, comprising security, audit, law, and human resources personnel, handles suspected violations and provides a report to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. All reports of suspected violations of law, business practices, or internal control procedures are thoroughly investigated, and major issues or violations are reported to the Audit Committee. Appropriate disciplinary action is taken for all violations, and no exceptions are made based on level of employment. Management systems Across all areas of the Corporation, ExxonMobil complies with applicable laws and regulations, and where laws and regula.tions do not exist, we maintain the use of our internal standards. Our management systems help identify, track, and report the metrics that demonstrate and guide our performance over time. They also provide the structure that enables our operations to adapt to new or altered regulations. Operations Integrity Management System. Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) addresses all aspects of managing safety, security, health, environmental, and social risks at our operations worldwide (see page 18). OIMS conforms with recognized safety, security, health, environmental, and chemical industry standards (for example, Responsible Care®), and requires us to assess the effec.tiveness of the system on a regular basis. In 2010, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc., reviewed our ongoing performance and attested that OIMS is fully consistent with the standard on environmental management systems of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO 14001:2004) and the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series for health and safety management systems (OHSAS 18001:2007). control systems. The ExxonMobil System of Management Control Basic Standards defines the basic principles and concepts that drive our business controls across operations worldwide. Our Controls Integrity Management System provides a structured approach to assessing and measuring finan.cial control risks, developing procedures for mitigating concerns, monitoring compliance with standards, and reporting results to the appropriate operations and management groups within ExxonMobil. These company-wide financial controls meet or exceed the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and NYSE listing standards. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP conducted an independent assessment that determined our internal controls system is effective for financial reporting. Regular self-assessments and audits help ensure our controls and standards are consistently implemented by every operating unit. Political involvement ExxonMobil makes political contributions to candidate committees, political parties, associations, and other political organizations, as permitted by applicable laws in the United States and Canada, and as authorized by the Board of Directors. In 2010, Exxon Mobil Corporation contributed a total of $396,000 to legislative and gubernatorial candidates and caucuses in 15 U.S. states. Information about our political activities, policy, guidelines, and an itemized list of these corporate political contributions are available on our Web site. In the 2009 to 2010 election cycle, ExxonMobil’s employee- and retiree-funded political action committee (PAC) disbursed $1.2 million, mostly to federal candidates. Based on the 2009 to 2010 election cycle contributions, CQ Moneyline listed the ExxonMobil PAC No. 114 in size compared to other PACs and candidate and/or party committees. Among corporate PACs, the ExxonMobil PAC ranked No. 41 in size in terms of receipts from employees and retiree shareholders, and No. 46 in size of total contributions to candidates. All rankings are compiled from publicly available data filed with the Federal Election Commission. political lobbying and advocacy. ExxonMobil tracks proposed legislation and engages with governments around the world to advocate our position on policies that impact our operations. Lobbying and advocacy activi.ties are necessary to ensure the company’s long-term success and protect shareholder value. ExxonMobil actively lobbies the U.S. Congress and state legislatures on a number of public policy topics, including access to resources, taxes, energy policy, trade, and climate policy. We fully comply with regulations by report.ing federal lobbying expenses in quarterly disclosure reports to Congress. A complete list of federal issues lobbied by ExxonMobil in the United States in 2010 can be found in the public disclosure section of the U.S. Senate Web site. In 2010, ExxonMobil reported lob.bying expenses totaling $12.4 million in our public Lobby Disclosures Act filings. On the Web: Management systems and policies exxonmobil.com/managementsystems Corporate governance exxonmobil.com/governance Proxy statements exxonmobil.com/proxymaterials ExxonMobil financials exxonmobil.com/investor Political action committee disbursements fec.gov Political contributions exxonmobil.com/political Federal issues lobbied (search “Exxon Mobil” as registrant) http://soprweb.senate.gov/index. cfm?event=selectfields 