CASE STUDY Exploratory drillship offshore Guyana. GUYANA OPERATIONS ExxonMobil has a significant presence in Guyana, with offices in the capital city of Georgetown and ongoing exploration and development operations offshore. As of July 2019, ExxonMobil’s discoveries in Guyana’s Stabroek Block represent more than 6 billion oil-equivalent barrels of recoverable resource. We recognize the importance of helping develop and produce Guyana’s energy resources in a way that benefits the country and its citizens. Local development Providing opportunities for local hiring and development is a vital part of our commitment to sustainable operations in Guyana. We apply proven training curriculums, industry best practices and leading technology to support local workforce development. In 2018, our affiliates in Guyana increased their workforce to nearly 2,000 employees and contractors, 54 percent of whom are Guyanese. As our projects progress, ExxonMobil, its contractors and subcontractors continue to build capacity of the Guyanese workforce. Our goal is to provide Guyanese personnel with technical and professional skills needed for existing and future operations. ExxonMobil provided more than 50,000 hours of training to individuals working on our projects during the second half of 2018, including training for careers in the emerging oil and gas industry in Guyana. More than 25 Guyanese traveled internationally, including to Brazil, Indonesia and the United States, to gain hands-on training that they can apply to their work in Guyana. We are committed to working with Guyanese suppliers to help develop local businesses. In 2017, ExxonMobil established the Centre for Local Business Development (CLBD) in Georgetown, Guyana. The CLBD promotes long-term, economic growth by helping local businesses build capacity and improve competitiveness. In 2018, it delivered courses on offshore oil and gas, procurement, health, safety, security and the environment to more than 2,500 participants from local companies. As part of this effort, the CLBD also trained more than 185 members of technical and vocational schools and provided nearly 550 hours of training to participants from government ministries and agencies. In doing so, the CLBD helps improve knowledge of the oil and gas industry in the country. ExxonMobil contracted with nearly 500 Guyanese vendors to supply goods and services for our operations in 2018. We also spent nearly $60 million directly with Guyanese companies ranging from food providers to engineering services. ExxonMobil also collaborated with the CLBD to host a two-day supplier forum in 2018. Representatives from more than 750 Guyanese businesses had an opportunity to meet and interact with ExxonMobil and our contractors, learn more about our procurement practices and gain insight into future ExxonMobil activities. We use CLBD’s interactive database to post bid opportunities and identify potential local suppliers, contractors and subcontractors. Biodiversity Understanding and protecting Guyana’s well-known, rich biodiversity is a key objective in successfully developing the country’s resources. We are working with local government and nonprofit organizations to help advance understanding of local biodiversity. For example, ExxonMobil consults with Guyanese scientists and government agencies to conduct onshore and offshore biodiversity surveys. In 2017 and 2018, ExxonMobil engaged a team of local experts to conduct a series of studies on avian and marine life in Guyana. The team also conducted the country’s first coastal-wide ecosystem services study to understand how coastal ecosystems support local populations. In 2018, the ExxonMobil Foundation pledged $10 million over five years to support a collaboration with Conservation International and the University of Guyana to help advance a sustainable economy through investments in education, research, environmental management practices and conservation. Through the program, the University of Guyana and Conservation International will offer training for jobs that provide sustainable goods and services. The investment will also help expand conservation areas in the Rupununi Wetlands, aid mangrove restoration and bolster community-based fishing on Guyana’s coast. Safety As with any country in which we operate, successful development of Guyana’s oil and gas resources requires a constant focus on safety and emergency preparedness. To build local capacity, we work with Guyanese stakeholders to develop effective emergency response plans for our operations and lead oil spill preparedness and response courses as part of ongoing training efforts. In 2018, more than 150 community members from six coastal regions participated in training courses. ExxonMobil provided trainers for the Guyana Civil Defense Commission (CDC) and National Oil Spill Response Committee focused on incident command training and oil spill management, and participated in CDC-led meetings of the National Oil Spill Response Committee. In addition to maintaining our own oil spill response plans, we are also working with the CDC to develop a National Oil Spill Response Plan, which the government plans to put in place before anticipated oil production in 2020. Stakeholder engagement Cultivating and maintaining positive relationships in countries where we operate is critical to our business success. ExxonMobil regularly engages stakeholders in Guyana, including government entities, nongovernmental organizations and local communities. We use multiple communication channels, including social media, to provide public updates on our activities. We also created a television program called Access ExxonMobil Guyana, which broadcasts new episodes on our activities every six to eight weeks. ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS This 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights summarizes ExxonMobil’s approach to managing our operations and describes our environmental, social and governance performance. This report focuses on 10 key topics for our business. For further information on all topics that are important to ExxonMobil, please visit our website. We developed this year’s Sustainability Report in accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers and the American Petroleum Institute. This report focuses on ExxonMobil’s operations from January 1, 2018, through December 31, 2018, unless otherwise indicated. This 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights uses qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and performance. Note that many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees. More about this report Additional resources Explore our online 2018 Sustainability Report exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport Content index exxonmobil.com/contentindex Report archive exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreportarchive Issue review Consistent with IPIECA’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, we use a “materiality process” to identify sustainability topics that are relevant to the company and our key stakeholders. ExxonMobil began conducting annual materiality assessments in 2006 to identify environmental, social and governance issues of particular interest to our stakeholders. We conduct an annual assessment to ensure our analysis reflects events and changing business priorities. The results of our materiality assessment help inform the development of our annual Sustainability Report. Read more about our materiality assessment. We list the 2018 material issues below. For the purposes of this report, the concept of “material issues” refers to IPIECA reporting guidance on potential disclosures and does not correspond to the concept of materiality used in the securities laws and disclosures required by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Visit our content index for a detailed mapping of the locations of information regarding material issues. Environment • Environmental management system • Engaging on climate change policy • Managing climate change risks • Developing innovative products and technology • Managing impacts on air and water • Waste management • Spill performance • Operating in sensitive environments Social • Safety • Workplace security • Community investments • Working with local communities • Human rights • Supply chain management • Healthy and engaged workforce Governance • Ethics and integrity • Board leadership • Engaging with governments • Shareholder relations The Outlook for Energy Energy Factor Summary Annual Report Energy & Carbon Summary exxonmobil.com/energyoutlook energyfactor.exxonmobil.com exxonmobil.com/annualreport exxonmobil.com/ecsummary