“ExxonMobil’s role is to create the technologies and techniques to develop and supply energy to growing populations and economies — in a safe, secure and environmentally responsible manner.” — Rex W. Tillerson, Chairman and CEO Welcome to the 2012 Corporate Citizenship Report. Our commitment — to our employees, shareholders and the communities and countries where we work — to operate safely and responsibly starts with our planning, management and accountability systems. It flows from the expertise and diligence of thousands of employees and contractors around the world. Each day, it is their integrity, attention to detail and concern for the local communities in which they live and work that shape our culture of safety and drive our citizenship and operational performance. Their efforts — and commitment to continuous improvement — are what we highlight in this report. Our Role In the coming decades, society will continue to face complex challenges related to a growing world population, economic growth, climate change, food security and public health, among others. Most of these issues can only be tackled through effective dialogue and cooperative action between governments, business and civil society. We must recognize that none of the challenges we face can be addressed without reliable and affordable access to energy. Energy powers our offices and schools. It runs life-saving medical equipment and operating rooms. It manufactures vaccines and transports medical personnel. ExxonMobil’s role is to create the technologies and techniques to develop and supply energy to growing populations and economies — in a safe, secure and environmentally responsible manner. Our Long-Term Responsibility ExxonMobil is focused on the long term. Our projects — and their impacts — span generations, not business or political cycles. Our long-term perspective helps us focus on our responsibilities for environmental protection, social development and economic growth. That’s why we are committed to providing our employees and contractors with a safe workplace, and we expect everyone to strive to reduce safety incidents. We discuss this culture of safety on page 37. Our commitment to operating in an environmentally responsible manner is anchored in our Environmental Policy. Our approach starts with gaining a thorough understanding of the local surroundings. This understanding is critical to our performance. We discuss this process on page 17. We also recognize the importance of understanding and managing the environmental and social risks associated with climate change. ExxonMobil is taking steps to reduce our own greenhouse gas emissions, investing more than $330 million this year alone, as you will read on page 30. In the communities where we operate, we continue to work to foster responsible economic growth by partnering with international institutions to develop suppliers and train workers in transferrable skills. We discuss one such example in our Sakhalin case study on page 56, where decades of collaboration have led to increased local capacity. Commitment to Performance We have established systematic policies and processes to measure, monitor and improve our economic, social and environmental performance. Strong results require effective risk management. They require long-term planning, undeterred by the episodic ups and downs of regional and global economic performance. They also require a relentless focus on operational integrity and best practices. As you will read in this report, we focus on long-term, incremental improvements that drive sustainable results. For example, we have used a variety of methods to improve safety performance, reducing our lost-time incident rate from 2000 to 2012 by 70 percent. In early 2013, ExxonMobil Pipeline Company responded to a crude oil spill in Mayflower, Arkansas — a regrettable event for which we are deeply sorry. We responded immediately with a focus on community safety, restoring the environment and understanding the cause of the incident. When working to ensure operational integrity, our goal is to manage risk to avoid incidents such as these. But it is also important that if they do occur, we have the competency and the capability to respond and a process to integrate lessons learned into future operations to reduce the risk of reoccurrence. Building Stakeholder Trust Industry must work to build stakeholder trust. With every new technological advance comes a renewed obligation to address public questions and concerns. That is why we must continue to engage with communities about how we systematically mitigate risk in our operations. You will read more about this engagement throughout this report. For example, the movement to unlock unconventional natural gas resources in the United States has spurred economic growth and contributed to reducing the nation’s greenhouse gas emissions to levels not seen in 20 years. It has also prompted questions from stakeholders about methods industry employs to access these resources, and the proximity of operations to local communities. It is important that we continue listening to those who have a shared stake in this and other issues so that we can continue to build their trust. We look forward to continually improving our performance and contributing to innovation and growth in the decades to come. We appreciate your interest in ExxonMobil, and we welcome your comments on this report at exxonmobil.com/citizenship. Rex W. Tillerson Chairman and CEO Letter from the Chairman and CEO About ExxonMobil The Outlook for Energy: 0204 06 A View to 2040 Engagement About this Report Managing Sustainability Issues 0708 09 Performance Data IPIECA/GRI Content Index Key Processes and 1012 13 Management Systems Human Rights and Managing Community Impacts • Identifying socioeconomic aspects • Respecting human rights • Indigenous peoples • Strategic community investments Safety, Health and the Workplace • Personnel and process safety • Emergency preparedness • Employment policies and practices • Employee benefits and programs ExxonMobil is the world’s largest publicly traded oil and gas company. We help provide energy that is fundamental to improving the lives of billions of people around the world. Access to energy underpins human comfort, mobility, economic prosperity and social progress. It touches nearly every aspect of modern life. We take our role to supply energy seriously, and we recognize that it comes with many responsibilities — to our shareholders, neighbors, customers and communities. Our employees, technical expertise, financial strength, global reach and the management practices that we build into the fabric of our operations provide ExxonMobil with long-term investment value and a competitive advantage. ExxonMobil’s 2012 Global Economic Contribution Capital and exploration Shareholder expenditures distributions $40 billion $30 billion Production, manufacturing and office taxes and expenses duties $49 billion $102 billion Oil and Gas Industry Contributions to the U.S. Economy Jobs Supported Labor Income Value Added to U.S. Economy Source: PricewaterhouseCoopers, May 2011 Upstream ExxonMobil has an Upstream asset base that is geographically and geologically diverse, with exploration and production acreage in 36 countries, pro.duction sites in 23 countries and sales of natural gas in 33 countries. Our total portfolio of 28 major development projects is expected to produce 1 million net oil-equivalent barrels per day in new production by 2017. Downstream As the largest global refiner, ExxonMobil has interests in 32 refineries in 17 countries, supplying fuels, lubricants and other high-value products and feedstocks to our customers. We are a market leader of high-technology and globally recognized synthetic lubricant brands, as well as a leading supplier of asphalt and specialty products. Chemical ExxonMobil is a leader in the chemical industry, with interests in 46 wholly owned and joint-venture manufac.turing locations worldwide. ExxonMobil is the largest pro.ducer of polyolefins, including plastics and polymers, and one of the largest producers of basic petrochemical build.ing blocks, such as aromatics and olefins. .Prime product sales include ExxonMobil’s share of equity-company volumes and finished-product transfers to the Downstream. About ExxonMobil 440,000 passengers ExxonMobil sells enough aviation fuel each day to transport 440,000 passengers from New York to London. 160 million tons ExxonMobil sells enough marine fuel each year to ship 160 million tons of cargo between California and China. $1.6 trillion The International Energy Agency estimates that an unprecedented level of investment — an estimated $1.6 trillion per year on average — will be necessary to meet energy demand through 2035. 14 days ExxonMobil produces high-quality plastics that can help reduce food waste by extending shelf life. For 114.2 million example, wrapping a cucumber in just 1.5 grams of plastic ÿlm can U.S. homes extend its shelf life to 14 days. 1.2 billion tires ExxonMobil produces enough ExxonMobil produced enough halobutyl natural gas globally each year to rubber in 2012 to equip 1.2 billion passenger heat 114.2 million U.S. homes — car tires with low permeability innerliners that 1 million tons nearly every home in the country. help tires remain in˜ated at the recommended ExxonMobil produces enough diesel pressure longer. each day to transport 1 million tons of goods by truck from New York to Los Angeles. 05 exxonmobil.com Each year, ExxonMobil takes a World Population by 2040 Evolving Energy Mix comprehensive look at long-Billions of people Energy mix in 2040 Average demand growth per year Size relative to percent of total mix between 2010 and 2040 0.610.631.03 1.79 0.210.320.280.27 3.79 4.59 term trends in energy supply, 2010 2040 demand and technology to Other 0.8% Oil 32% Natural Gas 27% 1.7% China Coal 19% -0.1% Nuclear 8% 2.4% India help guide our own long-term strategies and investments. The Outlook provides a window to the future. Over 0.450.55the next five years, ExxonMobil expects to invest approximately $190 billion in energy projects. The Outlook’s data-driven approach gives us Russia/Northa detailed picture of energy trends to guide our 0.480.58Europe Caspian Biomass 8% 0.4% America Middlebusiness investments over the long term. Asia Pacific Africa Solar/Wind East 4% 4.8% Biofuels/GeothermalLatinPopulation growth fuels energy demand America Our world runs on energy. It is fundamental to our way of life, growing our economy and improving standards of living. But the world is changing. An expanding population, economic growth, new technology development and changes in the nature and scope of regulations are all transforming the energy landscape. We are becoming more energy efficient and moving to cleaner fuels. At the same time, population growth, urbanization and expanding economic prosperity will drive demand higher, especially in Africa and Asia Pacific. ExxonMobil estimates that energy demand in developing nations  (non-OECD1) will rise 65 percent by 2040 compared with 2010, while overall global energy demand will grow 35 percent. The International Energy Agency’s World Energy Outlook New Policies Scenario also projects a 35 percent increase in energy demand from 2010 to 2035. 35 percent increase in global energy demand by 2040 Trends in electricity generation Even as energy availability increases, the International Energy Agency estimates that around 1.3 billion people — or slightly less than 20 percent of the world’s population — do not have access to electricity. Electricity generation represents the largest energy use across sectors, and this will continue through 2040. In addition to population growth, we expect urbanization to play a role in the growing energy needs through 2040. The United Nations estimates that the percentage of the world’s population living in urban areas will increase from about 50 percent in 2010 to more than 60 percent by 2040. An average urban resident consumes more electricity than his or her rural counterpart. Hydropower  3%  1.7%  By 2040, only about 55 percent of the world’s liquid fuel supply will come from conventional  An additional 2 billion people worldwide by 2040 means rising electricity needs.  crude oil production. The rest will be provided by deepwater, unconventional oil and natural  By 2040, 75 percent of the world’s population will reside in Asia Pacific and Africa.  gas liquids and biofuels, as technology enables increased development of these resources.  Today, coal and natural gas are competitive economic options for generating electricity. However, as costs rise due to policies aimed at addressing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, natural gas will continue to be competitive due to the fact that it emits up to 60 percent less carbon dioxide (CO2) than coal when generating electricity. That is why by 2030, ExxonMobil expects the implied cost of CO2 emissions to reach $60 per ton in OECD countries, and we anticipate global coal demand to begin a long-term decline for the first time in modern history. Emissions reductions Over the past decade, countries around the world have been working to address the risks associated with rising GHG emissions. Global emissions growth patterns are already changing — reflecting the more widespread use of energy-efficient technologies and less carbon-intensive energy sources. After decades of growth, energy- related GHG emissions are expected to plateau around 2030, despite a steady rise in overall energy demand. Technology and trade As global demand increases, advanced technologies to boost energy supplies are becoming more important. Thirty years from now, oil and natural gas are expected to meet about 60 percent of global demand, and an increasing share of this supply will be produced from unconventional oil and gas resources and deepwater fields. ExxonMobil is developing new technologies to support the safe and economical development of these resources, which are not always located where energy demand is highest. International trade plays an important role in ensuring the wide distribution of energy around the world. Around 2025, we expect North America will transition to a net exporter of energy, which will help grow the U.S. economy while providing much-needed energy to other regions of the world. For more information about the projections included in ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy, visit exxonmobil.com. . Refer to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) website — oecd.org — for a listing of its members. 06 exxonmobil.com Many people, organizations and communities are directly impacted by — or have a direct impact on — our business. Our engagement approach creates opportunities to provide information, as well as to listen to concerns, identify material issues and benchmark performance against expectations. Issues related to energy are multifaceted, and our stakeholders’ desired outcomes may not always align with each other or with the majority of our shareholders’ interests. Nevertheless, we will continue to participate in conversations with interested parties representing all points of view. The dialogue developed between ExxonMobil and our key stakeholders allows us to maintain the global perspective necessary to grow our business. ExxonMobil’s Stakeholders We solicit feedback and identify information gaps, strengths and weaknesses through a variety of mechanisms, including internal and external one-on-one and group dialogues and briefings, senior executive speeches, quarterly earnings teleconferences, focus groups, community consultations, email communications and our corporate blog at exxonmobilperspectives.com. We also use our publications such as the Corporate Citizenship Report, Summary Annual Report and our shareholder magazine, The Lamp, as well as content on our websites to communicate with our interested stakeholders. In each focus area of the 2012 Corporate Citizenship Report, we include examples of how we engage with stakeholders. External Citizenship Advisory Panel In 2009, ExxonMobil created an External Assessment Panel to provide an independent review of our corporate citizenship reporting process. The panel, comprising leading academics, non-governmental organization representatives and socially responsible investors, reviewed and commented on the 2008–2011 Corporate Citizenship Reports. In 2011, the External Assessment Panel became the External Citizenship Advisory Panel (ECAP), with an expanded focus on providing strategic and objective advice on ExxonMobil’s corporate citizenship activities. The ECAP reviewed an early draft of the 2012 Corporate Citizenship Report, and we evaluated this feedback and made revisions as appropriate. As with prior reports, the ECAP provided a publicly available statement summarizing key feedback. For the panel’s statement on this report, visit exxonmobil.com/panelfeedback. During 2012, the ECAP visited ExxonMobil Development Company’s global headquarters in Houston, Texas, to discuss social issues and provide feedback on the Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard. The panel’s feedback encouraged us to continue to engage external stakeholders on this subject. In 2013, the ECAP will visit ExxonMobil’s Upstream Research Company in Houston to discuss the Corporation’s approach to operating in the Arctic. Mark Cohen Professor of management and law Owen Graduate School of Management, Vanderbilt University Jane Nelson Director of Harvard Kennedy School’s Corporate Responsibility Initiative Salil Tripathi Director of policy Institute for Human Rights and Business Elizabeth McGeveran Sustainability and investment consultant and former senior vice president, Governance and Sustainable Investment F&C Asset Management Tim Smith Director and senior vice president, Environment, Social and Governance Walden Asset Management Our 2012 Corporate Citizenship Report marks a decade of formally detailing our plans, progress and commitments that demonstrate our evolution as a corporate citizen. The 2012 Corporate Citizenship Report highlights our performance and approach across six key citizenship focus areas: environmental performance (see page 15); managing climate change risks (see page 28); safety, health and the workplace (see page 35); corporate governance (see page 43); economic development and supply chain management (see page 49); and human rights and managing community impacts (see page 58). Across these focus areas, we recognize challenges, set high standards, define clear metrics and strive for continuous improvement by measuring progress. Reporting standards and scope This report was produced in accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), the International Oil and Gas Producers Association (OGP) and the American Petroleum Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010). The majority of these indicators are also consistent with the indicators used by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Increasingly, we receive requests for corporate citizenship-related information from customers, suppliers, investors and external ranking institutions. To help these stakeholders easily access this information, we have mapped relevant GRI and IPIECA indicators on page 12 of this report and at exxonmobil.com. The report covers ExxonMobil’s operations from Jan. 1, 2012, through Dec. 31, 2012, unless otherwise indicated. The report uses both qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to explain our policies, programs and practices. For environmental performance data, units of measure are metric where noted. Financial information is reported in U.S. dollars. Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso and XTO. For convenience and simplicity, those terms (and terms such as Corporation, company, our, we, us and its) are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. ExxonMobil includes the above-mentioned operations as part of company performance data (see page 10). The term “project” as used in this publication does not necessarily have the same meaning as under U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 13q-1 relating to government payment reporting. For example, a single project for purposes of the rule may encompass numerous properties, agreements, investments, developments, phases, work efforts, activities and components, each of which we may also informally describe herein as a “project.” Materiality A critical step in publishing this report is ensuring that the content accurately reflects the most current and relevant topics. ExxonMobil’s materiality analysis process identifies economic, environmental and social issues of particular interest and concern to our stakeholders, our industry and our business operations. We identify issues of external significance by monitoring stakeholder expectations and concerns through direct dialogue, public debate, legislation, media coverage, international agreements and feedback on our Corporate Citizenship Report. In 2012, ExxonMobil assessed customer, supplier and investor questionnaires related to corporate citizenship performance as part of our materiality analysis. We also reviewed international reporting standards and expectations to ensure a  comprehensive, globally focused analysis. In addition, community panels — such as Materiality Matrix High-Level Analysis Potential Impact on ExxonMobil Stakeholder Concern those near our Baytown, Texas, and Baton Rouge, Louisiana, refineries and chemical plants — commented upon the report. These comments were incorporated into material issues and improvements. Material issues have or may present a significant current or future impact on our company. We determine priority issues by rating each issue based on its level of significance to stakeholder groups, presence in the public domain, occurrence under international standards and frameworks, strategic importance to ExxonMobil and potential impact on our business objectives. Through this process, we are able to stratify the issues into three tiers, where tier 1 issues are most material. While this process continues to identify recurring issues, it also allows us to identify new and emerging issues. ExxonMobil’s management reviewed the results of the 2012 materiality analysis. We address all tier 1 and tier 2 issues in this Corporate Citizenship Report. Continuous improvement External feedback on our report is a key component of our engagement strategy and commitment to continuously improve our Corporate Citizenship Report. Management reviews all comments, which, in many instances, are incorporated into the materiality assessment and report content. We look forward to receiving feedback from stakeholders on our 2012 Corporate Citizenship Report. For additional information, to view previous reports or to provide comments, see exxonmobil.com/citizenship or contact: Ms. Amber Howard Corporate Citizenship ExxonMobil 800 Bell Street Houston, Texas 77002 citizenship@exxonmobil.com Assurance Third-party assurance provides an objective evaluation of how well we report our corporate citizenship information and gives our reporting processes additional credibility. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. conducts an annual third-party assurance of ExxonMobil’s safety, health and environment reporting system. For the full assurance state.ment, see page 66. ExxonMobil’s primary responsibility is to provide the energy needed to sustain and improve standards of living for people worldwide, while delivering a return to our shareholders. But our responsibility does not end there. The size and scope of our operations mean that we become part of local communities and economies wherever we operate. We seek to improve lives and create opportunities throughout the world. We do this not only because it is the right thing to do, but also because it helps create robust communities and stronger economies. This, in turn, is good for our business. “ExxonMobil is committed to addressing the challenge of sustainability — balancing economic growth, social development and environmental protection so that future generations are not compromised by actions taken today. By designing our approach to corporate citizenship around six key focus areas, we contribute to society’s broader sustainability objectives and manage the impact of our operations on local economies, societies and the environment.” — Rex W. Tillerson, Chairman and CEO Performance Data ExxonMobil collects data on a wide range of indicators to track performance.  We continuously work to improve our performance across our citizenship focus areas. This means assessing performance at many levels of the organization, from our operational sites to the business lines. We provide data interpretations where we consider the performance trend to be generally desirable (.), undesirable (.) or mixed (.) for applicable data. For certain metrics, no interpretation is necessary. For other metrics, we interpret Citizenship Data Table VOCs emitted, metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production trends based on performance over a multi-year period and consider other factors in our assessments, such as production volumes and economic climate. We conduct much of this detailed analysis at the operational level. When we see unfavorable trends at any level, we identify and aim to correct underlying causes. We describe in further detail within the text how we plan to address these issues. Starting in 2011, performance data include XTO Energy Inc. information. 2009 2010 2011 2012 Interpretation Page # 