Preventing and Mitigating Environmental Impacts in the Arctic The Arctic represents one of the world’s largest remaining regions of undiscovered conventional oil and gas resources, and we expect it to play a critical role in helping to meet the world’s growing energy demand. Arctic operations present unique technological, environmental and social challenges, and we know stakeholders are understandably interested in how the industry will address those challenges. Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) is a foun.dational framework to manage risks. We apply OIMS to identify the risks associated with projects and operating activities, and work to eliminate or reduce such risks, with the aim of prevent.ing negative environmental and social impacts. It enables us to understand the unique physical, ecological, cultural and economic characteristics of project and operational locations. We then ensure the appropriate design capabilities and operating practices are in place to conduct our activities safely and sustainably. We have been conducting exploration and production oper.ations in the Arctic for more than 90 years, and are among the industry leaders in oil spill prevention. Based on extensive industry experience, we know that incidents can be avoided and managed safely. This requires that wells are properly designed for the range of risks anticipated, established procedures are followed, layers of redundancy are built in, equipment is properly inspected and maintained, operators are trained, tests and drills are conducted, and the focus remains on safe operations and risk management. The Arctic is a complex and diverse environment. As we do with all of our projects, ExxonMobil prioritizes our activities based on a number of factors, such as safety, environmental and social. We typically extend the planning and development phase of the more challenging areas as we progress technologies to enable safe and environmentally sound activities. We take a careful approach to each project to ensure we have the capability to manage opera.tional and environmental risks safely before we proceed. Some of the ways we do this are described in this case study. In the unlikely and unfortunate event of a spill, ExxonMobil has the technical expertise, experienced personnel, quali.fied responders, access to response equipment and financial resources that enable us — while working closely with local PREVENTING AND MITIGATING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IN THE ARCTIC governments and communities — to conduct the safest and most effective response possible, regardless of location. Learn more about our Arctic operations View our Offshore Arctic Oil Spill Prevention, Preparedness and Response publication View our Arctic Leadership publication PREDRILLING STUDIES AND SURVEYS We conduct extensive studies and surveys before we com.mence drilling operations in every location, including in the Arctic. We know a scientific understanding of the local environ.mental surroundings is critical to preventing an incident. First, we undertake a thorough analysis of the literature and technical data available. Second, we conduct a comprehensive field survey designed specifically for the area of interest. Typically, we map several square kilometers in the targeted drill.ing location to identify potential hazards and sensitive environ.ments. We use tools such as a multibeam echo sounder, which provides a highly detailed, three-dimensional underwater map of the seabed, to identify larger obstructions such as rock outcrops and sunken vessels, or a sub-bottom profiler, which provides high-resolution views of what is buried below the seabed, such as pipelines and telecommunications cables. We also procure and analyze satellite imagery and other remote sensing data to inform our planning and decision-making processes. The data collected in the field surveys include precise GPS location information, allowing us to compile detailed maps of the identified hazards in the immediate area. We then use these maps to plan activities associated with drilling a well. As another precaution, we typically employ a remotely operated vehicle or sonar system to check the seabed around a well site again immediately before drilling begins.  ICE MONITORING, MANAGEMENT AND STRUCTURAL DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS Each area of the Arctic has its own unique ice environment. In order to prevent spills and other potential environmental impacts, we must understand each setting so we can design suitable operations and facilities that can safely operate under the most extreme conditions. For example, beginning nearly a decade before first oil pro.duction, ExxonMobil scientists and engineers, in partnership with Russian research institutes, studied the ice environment offshore Russia’s Sakhalin Island. We studied satellite images of ice formation and movement, installed seafloor-mounted ice drift and thickness monitoring stations, conducted on-ice drilling and strength testing of ice features, and completed seafloor ice gouge surveys. We conducted similar studies in advance of planned explora.tion drilling programs in Russia’s Kara Sea. With our partner Rosneft, we have conducted several ice characterization expeditions aboard icebreaking vessels with the aid of the Russian Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute. The aim of these expeditions was to gain a better understanding of the local marine environment. We used satellite imagery and vessel observations to locate, count and measure the size of sea ice flows and icebergs in the area, and we deployed GPS tracking buoys to track drift patterns. We analyzed decades of ice coverage data and satellite images to understand the range of conditions that could be encoun.tered. In 2013, during the time of year ExxonMobil expects to undertake drilling and construction activities in the future, we conducted field testing of our planned Kara Sea ice reconnaissance program using daily satellite images, on-site testing of advanced marine radar systems and testing of fixed-wing ice surveys to identify and track drifting ice within 100 kilometers of our proposed drill site. PREVENTING AND MITIGATING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IN THE ARCTIC SOUND AND MARINE LIFE In addition to our focus on spill prevention, we work to gain a better understanding of the Arctic ecosystem so we can identify how, when and where our activities might interact with marine life. We have assisted an international group of Arctic marine biologists and oceanographers — led by Dr. Arne Bjge at the Norwegian Marine Research Institute in Bergen — to improve understanding of habitats and foraging traits for five seal species across Northeast Greenland, Svalbard and Novaya Zemlya. As a result, we are better able to map ecosystem parameters through space and time to avoid or mitigate potential impacts on the Arctic ecosystem. A partnership with scientists at the University of California at Santa Cruz — led by Dr. Dan Costa — has resulted in important advances in the understanding of how much energy is required for the life functions of elephant seals and gray whales. This work has helped us avoid affecting these mammals. In addition, our scientists have been involved with research on western gray whales off Sakhalin Island since 1997. This work — which involves monitoring, photographing and cataloguing gray whales in the area — represents one of the most exten.sive research programs involving a whale species. The studies have increased scientific knowledge of this whale population and its broad-range habitat. Monitoring their population has demonstrated that our actions have resulted in no significant impact to the whales or their habitat in our operating area. Their population continues to increase, and whales that utilize the habitat offshore Sakhalin Island commingle with the larger population of eastern gray whales in North American waters. As part of our effort to avoid or reduce risks to marine life, we assess the potential effects of sound generated by our offshore activities during seismic surveys. Three decades of world.wide seismic surveying activity and scientific research have demonstrated that such surveys can be conducted safely and without any adverse effects on marine mammal populations. Further, we have implemented mitigation measures to reduce the potential effects on marine mammals. We set ship traffic guidance and establish marine mammal exclusion zones with calibrated buffer distances. We have specially trained observ.ers onboard survey vessels to detect marine mammals within a defined safety zone, and we use hydrophones to detect vocal.izing marine mammals. If we detect mammals within the safety zone, we immediately halt a survey until the area is clear. We also use a slow ramp-up procedure when starting or restarting a seismic survey that gradually increases sound level, allowing animals to leave the area if they react to sound. We are also working to improve our understanding of the com.plex characteristics of sounds in the marine environment, how they propagate, how marine life uses sound and what sound levels and frequencies different forms of marine life receive. In 2004, ExxonMobil and several other energy companies formed the Sound and Marine Life Joint Industry Program, which funds research on the effects of sound on marine life. To date, the program has invested $35 million on 70 research projects con.ducted by scientists in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Norway, the United Kingdom and the United States. These projects include understanding the magnitude and frequencies of sounds from engineered sound sources, and how seismic surveys affect whale and seal behaviors and the hearing capabilities of logger.head turtles. To learn more about the Joint Industry Program, visit soundandmarinelife.org. A worker supporting operations in Argentina. Wherever we operate, we employ structured environmental management processes across a project’s life cycle to ensure we are effectively addressing risks. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE We believe careful environmental management is an imperative for our business. To avoid or reduce impacts on the environment and communities and maximize shareholder value, we must understand the local setting, actively manage our environmental performance and maintain a relentless focus on operational excellence. 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report exxonmobil.com Environmental Management Globally, our projects and operations are set in a diverse range of environments that carry different sets of environmental, social and health risks, which we carefully identify, assess, manage and monitor throughout their life cycle. Wherever we operate, we employ structured environmental manage.ment processes across a project’s life cycle to ensure we are effectively addressing environmental, social and health risks. Our corporate Envi.ronmental Policy and Protect Tomorrow, Today. initiative serve as the foundations of our efforts, which are guided by a scientific understand.ing of the environmental impact of our operations, as well as the social and economic needs of the communities in which we do business. Our approach to environmental protection begins with a thorough understanding of local environmental, socioeconomic and health sur.roundings. This understanding is critical to superior performance. We identify potential risks through the Environmental Aspects Assessment and Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) processes. For more information about our ESHIA process, see page 60. We also prepare Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Management Plans and Environmental Business Plans to implement monitoring and mitigation strategies to manage the risks effectively. We engage with stakeholders throughout the entire life of a project or operation. Learn more about OIMS and our other management systems Learn more about our environmental management approach UPSTREAM ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIOECONOMIC AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROCESS Alignment with the requirements of the Environmental Aspects Assessment process Up Close: Innovation in Oil Sands Technology Canada’s oil sands are a key global resource and are critical to North America’s energy security. We believe technology and innovation provide solutions for managing the environmental impacts associated with oil sands development. Imperial, an ExxonMobil affiliate, has dedicated facilities, scientists and engineers that work closely with ExxonMobil’s research teams to focus on game-changing oil sands innovations that could improve environmental performance, such as reducing GHG emissions and water use and improving the management of tailings. Imperial is investing more than $100 million per year in research and is participating in multiple industry collaborations. Watch one of our employees talk about our     Kearl oil sands operation One technology that holds promise to improve environmental performance related to oil sands processing is tailings dewatering. Tailings, which are a byproduct of oil sands mining, consist of a mixture of water, clay, sand and residual bitumen; they have been a focus of concern due to their growing footprint. Imperial’s research team is developing a technology to bind the clay and sand together with solid particles, allowing them to separate from the water. Compared with liquid tailings, these separated particles provide a solid surface that can accelerate reclamation, while the separated water can be recycled back into the mining process, reducing the amount of freshwater needed. Watch Imperial’s video about oil sands research Up Close: Extended Reach Technology Extended reach drilling allows for the directional drilling of very long horizontal wells. By using this technology, we can access oil and gas resources in complex and challenging environ.ments, such as the Arctic, and reduce potential environmental impacts by limiting or eliminating our interaction with the marine environment. For example, at the Sakhalin-1 project in Russia, operated by ExxonMobil subsidiary Exxon Neftegas Limited (ENL), wells are drilled from a location on land to access the oil and gas reservoirs under the seafloor. ENL has drilled nine of the world’s 10 longest-reach horizontal wells, and holds the current world record with a well that extends 12,700 meters — more than 7.5 miles. Watch our extended reach drilling video Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Our approach to protecting biodiversity and ecosystem services recognizes factors such as the rarity of individual species, their roles in different ecosystems and habitats, their vulnerability and their cultural significance. Ecosystem services are the direct and indirect economic ben.efits people obtain from the environment, such as food, water, shelter, clean air and cultural identity. Safeguarding the ability of the environment to provide such benefits is an important focus area for ExxonMobil. PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY We are continuously looking for new tools and analytical methods to better understand local biodiversity conditions and ecosystem services in support of our management strategies. For example, ExxonMobil researchers developed a new framework for characterizing marine environmental sensitivities by prioritizing ecosystem services within regions of interest. During 2012, we piloted this framework in an analysis involving the Gulf of Mexico. In 2013, with the help of academic partners from the Harte Institute of Gulf of Mexico Studies, we expanded on this work by incorporating stakeholder input into the prioritization process. We held a stakeholder workshop in Houston, Texas, that included par.ticipants from the federal government and several industries, including oil and gas, wind energy, fishing and recreation. The results from this workshop indicated food, raw materials and recreation rank highest on the list of valued ecosystem ser.vices in the Gulf region. By assessing how ecosystem services and biodiversity can be impacted by different development strategies, we can incorporate sustainability considerations into our development plans. In Papua New Guinea, our biodiversity offset program is pro.gressing. The five components of the program include:  Component 1 — Work at the regional level to support the Papua New Guinea Department of Environment and Conservation (DEC) in the development of a protected area system for the Kikori River Basin  Component 2 — Work at the national level to support the DEC in furthering its objectives under the National Biodiver.sity Strategy and Action Plan  Component 3 — Enhance conservation capacity, which involves technical capacity-building related to conservation through the University of Papua New Guinea in a program to be led by the Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund  Component 4 — Enhance and strengthen one or more existing protected areas in the Kikori River Basin  Component 5 — Establish one or more new community-based protected areas in the Kikori River Basin In April 2013, we advanced Component 3 above, based on an agreement with the Mama Graun Conservation Trust Fund, to establish a conservation management course, award scholarships for participation in the course and provide work placements for graduates. In September, the University of Papua New Guinea announced it would offer a Diploma in Conservation Management as part of this initiative. ExxonMobil is also proud to support innovative research for improved biodiversity management. In 2013, we contributed approximately $4 million to organizations focused on biodiver.sity protection and land conservation. We have partnered with the Biodiversity Institute of Ontario at the University of Guelph for the past three years on DNA-based technologies for biodiversity management. Advances in the technology used for DNA sequencing and the development of global databases that store sequencing information have made it possible to assess and monitor species by analyzing the DNA left behind by various organisms in water and soil. This DNA analysis technique allows scientists to better understand biodiversity in any region of the world. We piloted this technology in the Canadian Beaufort Sea to test whether various samples can provide sufficient data to assist in determining the presence of species and habitat use, as well as in identifying rare or endemic species. We have also done work in Qatar to evaluate the use of DNA-based technology to determine the health of coral and sea grass. We plan to expand our research to other areas to test this approach in habitats ranging from tropical areas to temperate and arid environments. Learn more about industry best practices for biodiversity management WORKING IN PROTECTED AREAS We periodically screen our major operating facilities against databases of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and World Protected Areas. We confirmed an estimated 21 percent of our 89 major facilities are within five kilometers of designated environmentally protected areas. We ensure adequate plans are in place at our sites to mitigate elevated biodiversity or species risks. By the end of 2013, we actively managed more than 7,000 acres of land for the benefit of wildlife at 21 of our sites, including assessing the wildlife and habitat, developing a plan to enhance or sustain them, implementing the plan and monitoring the status. ExxonMobil continues to collaborate with the Wild.life Habitat Council for the development of educational and outreach programs at our sites through the Corporate Lands for Learning (CLL) program. Currently, we have five programs with CLL status; this helps us promote environmental awareness, biodiversity and science initiatives. In 2010, we initiated a substantial multiyear, cooperative wildlife research program in conjunction with Colorado State Univer.sity and Colorado Parks and Wildlife. The research program is designed to identify ways for industry to reduce its environmen.tal impacts and improve the compatibility of resource extraction activities with wildlife. XTO Energy has provided $5 million to assess and enhance habitats for large animals and sage grouse in the Piceance Basin in Colorado. Wastewater Management We are committed to finding ways to reduce the quantity and improve the quality of the wastewater managed in our operations. Oil and gas production and refining and chemicals manufac.turing operations typically produce wastewater that requires treatment before its reuse, discharge or disposal. Treatment methodologies range from the removal of hydrocarbons and suspended solids from produced water, to multistage biological systems for treating refinery, chemical plant and other Upstream wastewaters. We seek innovative solutions for addressing wastewater issues throughout our operations. For example, in Colorado, XTO Energy’s coal-bed methane operations in the Raton Basin produce an average of 1.5 million gallons of water per day. This produced water, which is a naturally occurring Up Close: Marine Environment Research in Qatar The Environmental Management Research Program at ExxonMobil Research Qatar (EMRQ) targets a better under.standing of the marine environment in Qatar. A key component of the work underway is environmental risk studies involving marine life, including photosynthetic organisms such as algae. Working in collaboration with Qatar University’s Environmen.tal Studies Center, EMRQ has isolated and grown single-species algae cultures that will be used to develop methods for determining the biological effects of compounds discharged to the Qatar marine environment from industrial processes. These studies will incorporate cutting-edge technologies such as delayed fluorescence from high-sensitivity luminometers. This work will complement other studies undertaken at EMRQ using species higher in the food chain. When completed, a comprehensive set of methods spanning the major levels of the food chain will provide a valuable scientific tool for envi.ronmental risk screening for Qatar and the Arabian Gulf. Concurrently, EMRQ is working with the Qatar Ministry of Environment and Hamad Hospital on a related study to map the microbial diversity in the Qatar marine zone. This infor.mation will be integrated with other environmental data in a geographic mapping framework, which EMRQ and others can use to address questions related to microbial diversity and correlate changes with varying environmental effects of human activities. “Research conducted by ExxonMobil Research Qatar is undertaken to provide a sound scientific basis for environ.mental risk assessment, which is key to the development and implementation of effective environmental manage.ment strategies for Qatar. This type of industry-government research collaboration undertaken on the local environment allows for knowledge transfer and scientific enrichment for all involved.” — Eng. Ahmad Mohammed Al-Sada, Acting Undersecretary for Environmental Affairs and Director of Environmental Assessment Department, Ministry of Environment, State of Qatar byproduct, is released into the environment after being treated in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements and benefits agriculture, wildlife and recreation in this often water-scarce region. XTO Energy manages this produced water stream in a way that blends it into the natural environment, such as introducing it into what were once dry streambeds. For information on how ExxonMobil manages freshwater throughout our operations, see page 37. Spill Performance We are focused on implementing preventive measures to avoid spill incidents and ensuring a rapid response if spills do occur. We had about 7 percent fewer spills in 2013 compared with 2012. We continually seek to develop and improve risk management, operations integrity, spill prevention processes and containment capabilities. The total volume of hydrocarbons spilled to soil and water was 11,000 barrels in 2013; more than 60 percent was recovered at the spill sites. The number of hydrocarbon spills greater than 1 barrel in 2013 was 7 percent lower than in 2012. Every day, we transport approximately 2.7 million barrels of petroleum and chemical products through approximately 8,000 miles of pipelines throughout the world. We maintain and test our pipelines regularly to ensure their integrity and detect corrosion and other concerns. We patrol pipeline routes on the ground and in the air, and we closely monitor pipeline SPILLS (NOT FROM MARINE VESSELS)1 Number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills greater than 1 barrel Spills to water Spills to soil 2010  210  2011  484  2012  356  2013  330  1XTO Energy performance included beginning in 2011. operations around the clock using state-of-the-art systems, alarms and other technologies. On March 29, 2013, we had a crude oil spill in Mayflower, Arkansas — a regrettable incident for which we are deeply sorry. We responded immediately, with a focus on community safety and restoring the environment. More than 700 people assisted with the response and cleanup during the first week following the incident, and we are grateful for the support from local officials and the community during the response. We continue to work with the Arkansas Department of Envi.ronmental Quality to complete remediation activities, and we are committed to remaining in Mayflower until the job is done. We are taking the necessary measures to ensure a similar incident does not happen again. The worldwide marine business of ExxonMobil’s affiliates, which involves about 650 vessels in daily service, logged more than 20,000 voyages and 45,000 port calls in 2013, safely transporting about 1.5 billion barrels of crude oil and refined products. We experienced the first release of hydro.carbons to water of any kind from our marine affiliate-operated vessels in more than seven years, when 1 cup of hydraulic oil escaped onboard containment. A third-party vessel on long-term charter also had a cargo spill of about 1 quart of lubricant oil. Our marine affiliates continue to conduct in-depth investigations and implement measures designed to eliminate spills and incidents. OFFSHORE OIL SPILL RESPONSE In order to maintain a high level of operational performance everywhere we work, we establish specialized spill response capabilities and tactics. We have a dedicated, in-house Arctic oil spill response research program, and we have led several joint-industry projects to enhance spill response efforts in ice-bearing waters. We have also commercialized the use of biodegrad.able surfactants that can be sprayed onto the water surface around the perimeter of an oil slick, causing the oil to retract and rethicken so that it can be burned in a controlled fashion without using a fire-resistant boom. This technology may be particularly useful in remote Arctic locations. We are also studying the use of fast-moving, small helicopters to deliver the surfactants to the site of a spill; we think this technology can also expand the use of in situ burning in non-Arctic open-water conditions. View our Offshore Arctic Oil Spill Prevention,     Preparedness and Response publication Since 2010, we have collaborated with others in our industry to develop an oil spill containment system for the Gulf of Mex.ico through our membership in the Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC). In 2013, MWCC enhanced the contain.ment system by expanding its capacity to handle fluids up to 350 degrees Fahrenheit and pressures up to 15,000 pounds per square inch, making it the only system in the world with such a capability. These enhancements allow us to drill wells safely at greater depths, pressures and temperatures, which contributes to continued safe operations offshore in the Gulf. Learn more about the MWCC In addition, we have helped lead the establishment of the Center for Offshore Safety (COS). The COS serves the U.S. offshore oil and gas industry with the purpose of adopting standards of excellence to ensure continuous improvement in safety and offshore operational integrity. Waste Management Our first priority is to avoid waste generation, and then to reuse or recycle waste wherever and whenever safely possible. Waste management presents challenges in some of our more remote operating locations, such as in Papua New Guinea. Accordingly, we have developed innovative approaches for handling some of the waste streams produced during con.struction of our Papua New Guinea Liquefied Natural Gas Project’s facilities. For example, to divert used tires away from landfills, we pursued EcoFlex technology. This methodology allows tires to be used in civil and environmental engineering applications, including the construction of containment and diversionary structures, road and paving systems, and soil stabilization and erosion control devices. The Papua New Guinea Department of Environment and Conservation has shown interest in EcoFlex for potential use in other parts of the country. Biological digesters have also been used at one of the project’s construction camps to manage food wastes, and these devices have proven to be efficient in handling this particular waste stream. The product is combined with topsoil and used during land reinstatement. Our Fuels & Lubricants business continues to pursue its “zero net waste” program. We focused initially on a few ExxonMobil lubricant locations to identify beneficial reduction and dispo.sition practices for various types of wastes. Subsequently, we benchmarked against waste management companies and facilities in other industries to identify best practices and pro.cesses that we could broadly integrate into Fuels & Lubricants site programs around the globe. We plan to begin a formal rollout of this program in 2014. We take a comprehensive approach to managing waste effectively in our drilling operations. At each drilling site, we AIR EMISSIONS (millions of metric tons) VOCs 2010 0.23 0.242011 0.202012 2013 0.19 SO2 2010 0.13 0.14 2011 2012 0.13 2013 0.12 NOx 0.12 2010 2011 0.14 2012 0.14 0.15 2013 We continue to seek opportunities to reduce environmental impacts from our operations by reducing air emissions. In 2013, our combined emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) decreased by 3 percent from 2012. manage our operations to avoid, reduce, reuse and recycle waste streams as much as possible. When planning for the off.shore discharge of certain drilling waste materials, ExxonMobil analyzes local environmental and regulatory factors to help determine optimal, cost-effective methods that are protective of the environment and are in compliance with regulatory requirements and internationally recognized industry practices. Learn more about our environmental drilling initiatives In 2013, we safely disposed of 280,000 metric tons of hazard.ous waste from our ongoing operations. In total, we reused or recycled about one-third of the hazardous waste generated by our operations. In 2013, our property remediation activities generated approximately 75 percent of our hazardous waste, which we safely disposed of in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Environmental Compliance We comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, and apply responsible standards where laws and regulations do not exist. Our worldwide environmental expenditures in 2013 totaled approximately $6 billion. This included an estimated $2.5 billion in capital expenditures and approximately $3.5 billion in operating expenses. In 2013, 74 penalties, fines and settlements were paid — compared with 80 in 2012 — accounting for less than 1 percent of total environmental expenditures, or about $2 million. ExxonMobil commenced the startup of a new diesel hydrotreater at the Singapore refinery in 2013. This brings ExxonMobil’s investments in ultralow-sulfur diesel facilities around the world to more than $3 billion. In addition to the new unit in Singapore, ExxonMobil has constructed diesel hydrotreaters at its refineries in Baytown and Baton Rouge in the United States, Antwerp in Belgium, Sriracha in Thailand and Yanbu in Saudi Arabia. When used in modern engines in tractor trailers, buses, marine vessels, locomotives and heavy construction equipment, ultralow-sulfur diesel can greatly reduce emissions and improve air quality. Restoring the Environment Efficiently remediating and restoring the lands we affect is central to reducing our overall environmental impact. Over the past six years, we have actively enhanced our approach to the remediation of affected properties and the transfer of non-operating surplus properties to beneficial end use. Since 2008, ExxonMobil Environmental Services (EMES) has spent more than $4 billion in remediation activities and returned more than 1,000 properties to beneficial end use.2 In 2013, EMES monitored more than 6,500 active projects in our global portfolio, compared with more than 8,000 projects in 2012. Our focus on site reclamation continues to lead us toward innovative ways to remediate and to enhance the pace of disposition of surplus properties to enable their beneficial end use. In 2013, ExxonMobil completed the donation of an approximately 13-acre site to Blacksburg, South Carolina. The town will work with a local land trust, Upstate Forever, to develop the property for recreational use. In Baltimore, Maryland, on a site that was once part of a refinery and prod.ucts terminal, a developer has completed construction of a new urban shopping center that includes a small park, which will serve as a much-needed resource for nearby neighbors. A 58-acre property in Olean, New York — a former refinery that operated from 1872 to 1955 — was sold to a developer that will proceed with redevelopment and the required cleanup under the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation Brownfields Cleanup Program (BCP). While the criteria and requirements of the BCP are rigorous, it provides incentives intended to enhance private-sector cleanup and redevelopment of brownfield sites, including tax credits for developers, a tax credit for real estate property taxes and an environmental reme.diation insurance credit. These incentives help bring needed economic development to communities. The process of remediating a property, determining a bene.ficial end use and ultimately transferring the property out of the EMES portfolio can be challenging and time-consuming. Additionally, there are a variety of complex regulatory require.ments that come into play during the process. To overcome some of these challenges, ExxonMobil collaborates with a wide variety of stakeholders, including local, state and federal regulators and, in some cases, the new property owners. Real.izing other companies across a variety of industries face similar challenges, ExxonMobil is leveraging its depth of experience in remediation and creative end use to help establish a Surplus Property Roundtable (SPR). The SPR is a forum for more than 15 companies to share best practices and ideas for beneficial and innovative end uses of surplus properties. In addition, our partnership with the Land Trust Alliance and collabora.tions with land trusts across the United States continue as we endeavor to advance land conservation as an end-use option for future properties. 2The total number of surplus properties in the portfolio changes as we transfer properties out and as new properties come into the portfolio. In 2013, we had almost 3,000 properties, 100 less than in 2012, in the surplus-site portfolio. We expect the 2014 number of surplus properties to decrease by an additional 150 properties, demonstrating we are effectively implementing our land management strategies. Up Close: Technological Advancements in Environmental Remediation Among the challenges we face is determining the most effective remediation approach for a property, which can be a technically complicated and lengthy process. No two sites are the same — each has a unique geological, ecological and regulatory setting. Only through science-based investigations can the current condition of the soil and groundwater at a site be determined and the most effective approach to remediation be identified. In addition, science-based technological advancements take time to identify, test and verify. ExxonMobil works with a number of academic institutions and organizations to help develop and advance scientific approaches that underpin soil and ground.water remediation technology, as well as identify and develop new, effective approaches for land reclamation. For example, through our involvement with the University Con.sortium for Field-Focused Groundwater Research, we devel.oped a more complete understanding and quantification of a managed approach to natural attenuation — the breakup and digestion of contamination by microorganisms — called Natural Source Zone Depletion (NSZD). Recent pilot tests monitoring this phenomenon in Bayonne, New Jersey, indicated the rate of natural depletion may be at least 10 times faster than existing conventional physical oil recovery rates at this site. This knowl.edge will help craft a more sustainable long-term remediation approach for this and other properties. Based on the results of the pilot tests, NSZD studies are underway at several sites around the United States, and we plan to test this application at remediation sites around the world. “Over the past 40 years, we have been on a remarkable journey of evolving environmental practices. We have made great strides in advancing technology to address the legacies of past practices. ExxonMobil’s leadership in supporting the work of the University Consortium has helped to further advance leading-edge research and foster successful collaborations between academia and industry. Building on ExxonMobil’s support over the past decade, our vision is to continue to work together to look beyond TECHNOLOGY PIPELINE what we know today and to find new solutions that are more effective and more sustainable.” Scientific technologies and advancements go through a considerable research and gestational period before (and if) they are commercialized and become widely — Tom Sale, Associate Director of the University Consortium available. Our scientists and engineers work together with academic researchers, trade groups and industry organizations throughout each stage of the technology for Field-Focused Groundwater Research development spectrum. 