Chairman’s letter Energy makes life as we know it possible. Energy provides the fundamental underpinnings for quality of life. Energy powers the world’s economies and allows us to improve our standards of living. ExxonMobil’s core mission is to power the world’s progress by expanding energy supplies safely, securely and responsibly. We believe our industry will be instrumental to meeting a fundamental and universal human need. Our successes are a reminder that new technologies and proven techniques are the key to unlocking abundant sources of energy. We uphold the highest standards of safety and environmental protection in supplying the world’s energy. Our work enables billions to access the energy that supports their livelihoods. We understand the need to thoughtfully invest to expand the benefits of modern energy while protecting the environment and addressing the impacts of rising greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. This Corporate Citizenship Report provides a view of how we work to help power the world’s progress. It shares our priorities and our plans for the future. It provides data and examples that chart our progress and describe our approach. Some of the highlights related to our priorities include: Safety, health and the workplace. The effort to develop energy resources takes our company to some of the most difficult and challenging places on earth. We make a commitment to do the right thing, the right way, every time each employee and contractor does his or her job. In 2015, we continued our journey toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. We will never stop working to achieve and sustain this goal. Managing climate change risks. Managing the risks of climate change is an important responsibility for our business and society at large. We believe that sound policy, free markets, innovation, technology and efficiency are essential in addressing the risks of climate change. We continue to advance research and development, leading to innovation in areas such as advanced biofuels, carbon capture and sequestration, and energy efficiency. Managing our own greenhouse gas emissions is a core element of our operations. We have and will continue to engage relevant stakeholders to further develop climate science and broaden its understanding by society at large. Environmental performance. Rigorous, science-based environmental management is a critical element of what we do. Protect Tomorrow. Today. sets the principles that guide our efforts to protect biodiversity, manage water use and air emissions, avoid spills, decommission sites and rehabilitate the environment. Community and social impact. Maintaining respect for human rights, responsibly managing our impacts on communities and making valued social investments are integral to the success and sustainability of our business. In 2015, we contributed $268 million to communities around the world, focusing on areas such as improving education, combating malaria and advancing economic opportunities for women. ExxonMobil’s local content and supply chain management strategies are designed to deliver lasting and shared value to host countries, local communities and our business. Governance. Upholding the highest ethical standards of business conduct is critical to maintaining our global license to operate. A commitment to ethics and integrity is the foundation of our corporate culture. We seek to maintain the highest anti-corruption compliance in all aspects of our operations. The challenge of powering the world’s progress is one that defies simple solutions. There are many stakeholders with strongly held views and differing opinions. We work to understand them and strive to strike an appropriate balance that maximizes the benefits to society. The approach we take will be grounded in facts and science, and will be guided by practical choices backed by human ingenuity. The good news is that practical options to meet people’s needs for reliable, affordable energy continue to expand. I’m pleased to share this Corporate Citizenship Report to show how we approach these challenges, the actions we’re committed to taking and the performance of the capable men and women who make up ExxonMobil. We continue to encourage feedback from all of our stakeholders at exxonmobil.com/citizenship. Rex W. Tillerson Chairman and CEO Chairman’s letter About ExxonMobil ExxonMobil’s integrated businesses As a global provider of energy, ExxonMobil’s core mission is to safely and responsibly deliver the energy needed to power the world’s economic, social and technological progress. Every day, we work to do this with integrity, ingenuity and a commitment to good corporate citizenship. We recognize the significant responsibilities we have to our shareholders, neighbors, customers and communities as we find ways to bring affordable energy to a global market. We believe our employees, technical expertise, financial strength, global reach and disciplined approach provide ExxonMobil an advantage in addressing the challenges of meeting global energy demand. As the world’s largest publicly held oil and gas company, ExxonMobil has a diverse portfolio of high-quality assets, projects and resources across our Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses. We seek to maintain a balanced portfolio of opportunities to ensure profitable growth through a wide range of investment and geopolitical environments. Upstream Downstream Chemical Our Upstream business encompasses high-quality exploration Our balanced Downstream portfolio includes refining facil-ExxonMobil Chemical is one of the largest chemical companies opportunities across all resource types and geographies, an ities in 14 countries. We are one of the largest integrated in the world. Our unique portfolio of commodity and specialty industry-leading resource base, a portfolio of world-class refiners and manufacturers of lube basestocks and a leading businesses delivers superior returns across the business projects and a diverse set of producing assets. We have an marketer of petroleum products and finished lubricants. cycle. We manufacture high-quality chemical products in active exploration or production presence in 36 countries. Our high-quality products, combined with a strong global 16 countries. Our products serve as the building blocks for refining and distribution network, position us as a premier a wide variety of everyday consumer and industrial products. global supplier. 4.1 million oil-equivalent barrels of 5.8 million barrels of petroleum 24.7 million metric tons of net oil and gas production per day1 product sales per day2 prime product sales3 1Gas converted to oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels. 2Petroleum product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty. 3Prime product sales are total product sales excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales include ExxonMobil’s share of equity company volumes and finished-product transfers to the Downstream. About ExxonMobil About ExxonMobil Powering the world’s progress At every link in the energy supply chain, ExxonMobil seeks to advance innovation and technology to deliver the energy the world needs — to support growth, opportunity and progress for all citizens. Powering the world’s progress means expanding the benefits of modern energy while protecting the environment and addressing the impacts of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. ExxonMobil’s approach to powering the world’s progress is founded on our core belief that a relentless pursuit of operational excellence, coupled with the power of science, technology and engineering in the hands of people with integrity, can solve even the most challenging problems. ExxonMobil plays a key role in providing the energy needed for continued economic prosperity and human progress. The immense size of global energy needs can be difficult to concep.tualize. Global energy demand in 2015 is estimated to be about 560 quadrillion British thermal units (BTUs), equivalent to about 12 billion gallons of gasoline daily, and this number is increasing. To put that number into perspective, the ExxonMobil-operated Hebron project in eastern Canada will produce approximately 700 million barrels of oil over the course of 30 years, enough to satisfy about three days of current global demand. For informa.tion on the global, economic, social and technological factors that determine the world’s energy needs, see the discussion on our Outlook for Energy on the following page. In addition to providing oil and gas resources, we strive to make significant contributions around the world through our capital and exploration expenditures and investments in research and development, as well as our community investments and local content development. In 2015, our capital and exploration expenditures, shareholder distributions, production, manufacturing and office expenses, and government taxes and duties totaled $149 billion. For more in-depth analysis of our financial performance and investment decisions, see our 2015 Summary Annual Report and 2015 Financial and Operating Review. ExxonMobil 2015 Summary Annual Report ExxonMobil 2015 Financial and Operating Review Global economic flows from ExxonMobil in 2015 Billions of dollars Capital and exploration expenditures Government Shareholder distributions $31 taxes and duties $58 $15 Production, manufacturing and office expenses $45 ExxonMobil is a significant contributor to the global economy. In 2015, global economic flows from ExxonMobil totaled $149 billion, with the highest contribution in government taxes and duties. Powering the world’s progress The Outlook for Energy Energy demand Quadrillion BTUs 1,200 1,000 Energy savings 800 Rest of world 600 Key growth 400 India China 200 OECD324 0 2000 2020 2040 Global fuel demand in 2040 — projections Quadrillion BTUs 250 0.7% Average annual growth rate 2014–2040 Average of all fuel types: 0.9% 200 1.6% -0.2% 2014150 2040 100 0.3% 2.9% 50 4.8% 1.3% 0 Oil Gas Coal Biomass Nuclear Solar/ Hydro/ wind/ geo biofuels Energy matters to everyone, and we all play a role in shaping its future. Understanding the factors that drive the world’s energy needs, and likely choices to meet those needs, is the mission of ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy. By sharing the Outlook with the public, we hope to broaden that under.standing among individuals, businesses and governments. Every day, all over the world, energy makes modern life possible. We rely on it for food production, mobility, shelter, security, communication and modern health care. Energy also drives growth, opportunity and progress. The global population is projected to rise to 9 billion in 2040, while economic growth in China, India and other non-OECD4 countries will enable significantly more people to improve their living standards. We estimate that global energy demand will be 25 percent higher in 2040 than it was in 2014, led by a 45 percent increase in non-OECD countries. Improved living standards will require meeting the world’s energy needs while managing the environmental impacts of energy use, including climate change. Practical options to help meet the needs for reliable, affordable and cleaner energy continue to expand. We expect that as efficiencies improve and society shifts toward lower-carbon fuels, the amount of energy-related carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions per dollar of global gross domestic product (GDP) will be cut in half by 2040. We update our long-term energy outlook each year, taking into account the most up-to-date demographic, economic and technological information available. The following are some highlights from this year’s Outlook for Energy: • Energy is fundamental to standards of living — As incomes rise, billions of people in developing nations will rise into the middle class; many will be able to afford amenities such as temperature-controlled homes, cars and appliances. In 2014, there were about 10 cars per 100 people in China. By 2040, this number is expected to rise to about 30 cars per 100 people. • Developing nations will lead gains in GDP and living standards — We expect that China, India and many other developing nations will see strong growth in GDP and living standards to 2040. Per capita income in non-OECD nations is expected to rise by about 135 percent between 2014 and 2040; in OECD nations, it is expected to rise almost 60 percent. • Economics and policies will impact the energy mix — Increasingly, the mix of fuels that consumers use to meet their energy needs will be reshaped by economics, tech.nology and government policies. In general, demand will shift toward cleaner fuels like natural gas, renewables and nuclear. The share of the world’s electricity generated by coal will likely drop to about 30 percent in 2040, from more than 40 percent in 2014. • Oil will remain the world’s primary fuel — We expect oil to continue to be the world’s leading energy source, driven by demand for transportation fuels and by the chemical industry. One-third of the world’s energy is expected to be provided by oil in 2040. • Natural gas grows more than any other energy source — Demand for natural gas is growing rapidly, in part due to its abundance and ability to meet a wide variety of needs as the cleanest-burning major fuel. Around 40 percent of the growth in global energy demand from 2014 to 2040 is projected to be met by natural gas. • Technology has the highest potential and the greatest uncertainty — Advances in technology have tremendous potential to help meet our energy and environmental goals, but the pace of change is difficult to predict. There is also significant emphasis on technological advances to improve energy efficiency. Global average fuel economy for light-duty vehicles is expected to improve by 80 percent from 2014 to 2040, reflecting advances in technology. The Outlook for Energy: A View to 2040 4The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Refer to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development website (oecd.org) for a listing of its members. The Outlook for Energy Sustainability ExxonMobil is faced with the complex challenge of providing the energy needed to support economic growth and improved standards of living while balancing impacts on society and the environment. ExxonMobil views corporate citizenship as a key component of sustainable development. By designing our approach to corporate citizenship around six key areas, we contribute to society’s broader sustainability objectives and manage the impact of our operations on local economies, societies, climate and the environment. These six areas of corporate citizenship — which include safety, health and the workplace; managing climate change risks; environmental performance; community and social impact; local development and supply chain management; and corporate governance — are discussed in detail throughout this report. We are committed to aligning our long-term business objectives with these areas of corporate citizenship. As a global provider of energy, our primary objective is to responsibly meet the world’s energy needs while increasing shareholder value. To help evaluate the success of our corporate citizenship initiatives and cultivate strong investor relations, we employ eight strategies that help guide and measure our commitment to good corporate citizenship and address society’s diverse sustainability objectives. These strategies include: • Integration • Project execution • Investment and cost discipline • Risk management • Operational excellence • Technology leadership • Portfolio management • World-class workforce Sustainability Powering the world’s progress depends on developing and retaining a world-class workforce. By pairing technical expertise and industry-leading research capabilities, ExxonMobil is able to identify and develop the high-quality oil and gas resources needed to help sustain economic development. We are also committed to developing innovative products and services that deliver superior performance for consumers and long-term value for shareholders. We make strategic decisions on issues that directly affect the sustainability of our business. Our diligent investment and cost discipline approach allows us to execute deals with attractive valuations in a competitive industry environment. We work to deliver complex, integrated projects on time and on budget. Our goal is to maintain a diverse and balanced portfolio of high-quality resources, projects and assets across our businesses. In every aspect of our business, we work to sustain safety, reliability and environmental stewardship of our operations through an unwavering commitment to operational excellence. We apply a systematic approach to identifying, evaluating and managing risks across our operations and relentlessly work to be the partner, neighbor, employer and supplier of choice around the world. For information on how our Operations Integrity Management System guides risk management throughout our operations, see page 15. Sustainability Papua New Guinea Prime Minister Peter O’Neill on board the Spirit of Hela for loading of the first liquefied natural gas cargo. ExxonMobil is committed to engaging with stakeholders wherever we operate. Engaging with stakeholders As a global company, our business directly affects and is directly affected by many people, organizations and communities around the world. For a company of our size, building and maintaining relationships with a diverse group of stakeholders are both priorities and ongoing challenges. Energy issues are complex and our stakeholders represent multiple viewpoints. The discussions we undertake with our stakeholders help us understand a variety of perspectives. Regular stakeholder engagement helps us continue to improve our company and remain a responsible corporate citizen. We interact with our stakeholders using a variety of mecha.nisms, including community meetings, Web and social media content, corporate publications, and one-on-one and group discussions, among others. We include examples of stake.holder engagement throughout this report. While ExxonMobil recognizes that our stakeholders may have a diverse set of interests, the following list demonstrates our different stake.holders and their typical areas of interest. Employees • Benefits; diversity; development opportunities; safety, health and wellness Customers • Product safety and sustainability; supply chain management; greenhouse gas emissions Suppliers • Expectations for suppliers; expanding local supply network; supplier diversity Communities • Community development; economic development; grievance management; human rights; operational impacts Governments • Taxes; local supplier development; job creation; impact assessments; ethics; education Non-governmental organizations • Biodiversity; water management; climate change; air quality; transparency Shareholders • Governance practices; board composition; policy engagement; sustainability Engaging with stakeholders External Citizenship Advisory Panel ExxonMobil has engaged an External Citizenship Advisory Panel (ECAP) since 2009 to provide an annual independent review of the company’s corporate citizenship activities, including this report. ECAP members are experts in social and environmental topics and are leading academics, non.governmental organization (NGO) representatives and former government employees. Each year, the ECAP reviews a draft of this report and provides feedback, which we evaluate and incorporate into the report as appropriate. ECAP statement on 2015 Corporate Citizenship Report To the readers of this report, We are pleased to share our independent opinion on ExxonMobil’s 2015 Corporate Citizenship Report. Over the course of our engagement period in 2015–2016, we participated in teleconference, email and in-person discussions with ExxonMobil’s corporate citizenship team and subject matter experts. While the Panel’s mandate includes engaging with the company on policy and strategy issues, this statement focuses on its transparency efforts through reporting. We had an opportunity to review and provide feedback on a draft of the report, some of which was adopted. We hope that ExxonMobil will consider the remainder of our feedback to inform its future corporate citizenship reporting. This letter is not an official endorsement of the report, the corporation or its policies, but rather our individual and collective views on the quality and progress made in ExxonMobil’s citizenship practices and reporting. In recognition of substantial time spent during the engagement period, ExxonMobil provided a donation on behalf of the panelists to nonprofit organizations of our choice and reimbursed ECAP-related travel expenses. 2015 commentary We appreciate the wide scope of reporting and the number of issues included in this report. In particular, we recognize the company’s ongoing work to provide additional performance data to back up statements made in the report. The country-specific case studies are effective in providing readers with relevant examples that demonstrate how ExxonMobil’s policies and approaches are employed. While we believe that the report’s scope is extensive with many interesting and appropriate stories, there are several areas where we have recommendations for the company’s future reporting efforts. Climate change In his introductory statement, Chairman Tillerson mentions that “managing the risks of climate change is an important responsibility for our business and society at large.” However, as a whole, the report needs greater clarity regarding the breadth and effectiveness of the company’s steps to address those risks. With regard to the topics of climate-related research, the development of innovative technologies, and improving energy efficiency in its own operations, ExxonMobil describes considerable progress. However, the largest contribution to greenhouse gas emissions comes not from ExxonMobil’s internal operations, but from the use of its products. If society is to take significant actions to reduce the risks of climate change, which ExxonMobil states as an important responsibility, it must adopt appropriate public policies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels. Future reports would benefit from more specificity about the company’s support for a carbon tax, as well as its engagement on other policy issues in the United States and internationally. Additionally, we would encourage the company to discuss more fully its continued focus primarily on oil and gas, relative to plans for moving toward lower-carbon sources of energy. Many of the world’s leading companies — including some in the oil and gas sector — are publicly announcing science-based goals to transition their businesses toward a low-carbon economy. As investors and stakeholders increasingly call for disclosure of corporate strategic goals, we believe ExxonMobil would benefit from becoming a leader in this regard. The generation of methane emissions is another issue where we believe the company could describe its efforts more broadly. The Up Close example on page 37 provides insight into XTO Energy’s efforts to reduce methane emissions at its hydraulic fracturing sites throughout the United States. We would welcome a broader description of ExxonMobil’s efforts to reduce these emissions. First, what are the company’s efforts to reduce methane emissions in its other operations worldwide? Second, we would welcome learning of the company’s stance on various public policy options to reduce these emissions, including whether there are any U.S. federal or state regulations that it supports or is actively advocating. Human rights and social reporting While we understand that social reporting lags behind environmental, safety and economic reporting across all sectors, we believe ExxonMobil could discuss its approach to respecting human rights across its operations and in its supply chain in greater depth and with more specificity. For example, we would like to see ExxonMobil describe its approach to upholding the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights in the report. We commend the company for assuming a leadership position on the steering committee of the Voluntary Principles in 2015. As we recommended last year, we would like the report to reflect greater rigor in presenting its approach and the outcomes of its efforts to respect security and human rights, especially using metrics to evaluate its performance vis-à-vis other companies. We appreciate the reporting on outcomes of ExxonMobil’s community investment initiatives, particularly the malaria examples described on pages 69–70, and the company’s support for women’s economic empowerment. In future reports, we would like the company to provide insight on how the grievance mechanisms at its various projects are used in practice. External Citizenship Advisory Panel Role of suppliers, contractors and other partners We commend the ongoing work that the company is undertaking to better understand and influence the environmental, social and human rights performance of the companies with which it does business. We recognize there are thousands of such companies as well as other partners that are working with ExxonMobil, but feel that the company could further describe how it is working proactively with these entities to improve their sustainability performance, both individually and collectively. Comparison and benchmarks ExxonMobil provides useful industry benchmarking data for its annual safety performance data. However, outside of this topic, Mark Cohen Professor of Management and Law Vanderbilt University Owen Graduate School of Management Sarah Labowitz Co director of Center for Business and Human Rights New York University Stern School of Business ExxonMobil does not give the readers of this report adequate context to determine the company’s performance relative to others in the industry. We would recommend that ExxonMobil consider including industry benchmark information around its other material issues. In addition, we would recommend ExxonMobil further enhance its descriptions on performance and progress made compared with prior years. Conclusion We are grateful for the opportunity to provide our collective feedback on ExxonMobil’s transparency and disclosure efforts directly in this report. We are encouraged to see that the company’s reporting continues to evolve and improve each Frank Loy Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs U.S. Department of State Jane Nelson Director of Corporate Responsibility Initiative Harvard University Kennedy School of Government year, and we look forward to sustained engagement to identify and discuss other opportunities for continual improvement. Sincerely, Mark Cohen Sarah Labowitz Frank Loy Jane Nelson Salil Tripathi April 11, 2016 Salil Tripathi Senior adviser, global issues Institute for Human Rights and Business External Citizenship Advisory Panel ExxonMobil’s key sustainability issues and challenges Our stakeholders are increasingly interested in how we are incorporating sustainability and addressing challenges in our everyday operations. Suzanne McCarron, ExxonMobil vice president of public and government affairs, answers some of these questions from stakeholders in the discussion below. With low oil prices and concerns about stranded assets, does ExxonMobil have any plans to diversify its energy mix? We believe prices over the long term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand, with the demand side largely being a function of global economic growth. On the supply side, prices may be significantly impacted by political events, the actions of OPEC and other large government resource owners, and other factors. To manage the risks associated with price, ExxonMobil evaluates annual plans and all investments across a wide range of price scenarios. Our assessment is that operations will exhibit strong performance over the long term. This is the outcome of disciplined investment, cost management, asset enhancement programs and application of advanced technologies. Our analysis confirms our long-standing view that all energy sources are necessary to meet rising global energy demand and to support improving living standards worldwide. All of ExxonMobil’s current hydrocarbon reserves will be needed, along with substantial future industry investments, to address global energy needs. ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy and all credible forecasts, including that of the International Energy Agency, predict that carbon-based fuels will continue to meet about three-quarters of global energy needs through 2040. We also have a team within the company — the ExxonMobil Emerging Technologies team — that studies every aspect of the energy business, from oil and natural gas to alternatives. It looks into areas outside our company’s current business focus. If a technology could have a material effect on the future of energy, the Emerging Technologies team works to understand and evaluate it. We work hard to keep our research aperture wide. Suzanne McCarron has worldwide responsibility for the company s public policy, government relations, communications, media relations and corporate citizenship activities. Suzanne authors our Perspectives blog, laying out some of the energy challenges we face and encouraging active discourse about their solutions. What are ExxonMobil’s views of the climate agreement reached at the COP 21 climate conference in Paris? The recently concluded talks reflected the complexities of enacting thoughtful policies that address climate risks in a meaningful way while also ensuring accessible and affordable energy supplies for societies throughout the world. As policymakers develop mechanisms to meet the goals set in Paris, ExxonMobil encourages them to focus on reducing the greatest amount of emissions at the lowest cost to society. At the same time, we urge them to recognize important shared humanitarian needs, including providing reliable and affordable energy to improve living standards. As a global issue, climate change requires global solutions. Both developed and developing countries must now work together in crafting policies aimed at mitigating greenhouse gas emissions, while recognizing differing national priorities. What is ExxonMobil doing to address the risks of climate change? We believe the risks of climate change are real and warrant thoughtful action. Climate change is a global issue that requires the collaboration of governments, companies, consumers and other stakeholders to create global solutions. ExxonMobil continues to support and contribute to efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. For more than three decades, we have continuously funded and participated in research to improve understanding of climate science, often in conjunction with government bodies and leading research universities. This has resulted in hundreds of publicly available documents on climate-related topics, including more than 50 peer-reviewed publications. We promote discussion on issues of direct relevance to the company and contribute to a wide range of academic and policy organizations that research and promote dialogue on significant domestic and foreign policy issues. We value scientists and research, and we collaborate with the world’s smartest minds in partnership with more than 80 universities around the world. With more than 2,200 Ph.D. scientists and engineers and more than 5,000 employees at our research and technology divisions around the world, we work day in and day out to explore the new energy solutions of the future. We spend about $1 billion annually on energy research, a total that includes commitments to biofuels, carbon capture and sequestration, bio-products, non-hydrocarbon energy supply, power generation, transportation, energy efficiency and climate science. ExxonMobil’s key sustainability issues and challenges Since 2000, we have spent nearly $7 billion on technology to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including on energy efficiency, cogeneration, flare reduction, carbon capture and sequestration, and research on lower-emission energy solutions. This includes investments of more than $3.8 billion since 2000 to address energy efficiency and flare mitigation at our Upstream facilities around the world. Additionally, since 2001, more than $2 billion has been invested in our Upstream and Downstream cogeneration facilities to more efficiently produce electricity and reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our manufacturing sites. We are proud of the progress we’ve made, and we recognize the importance of continuing our research and development to help further expand the understanding of climate science. Our efforts have enabled us to take meaningful action to mitigate the risks of climate change, and we will continue to build on this foundation as we work with governments and stakeholders to further address the issue. Increasingly, a number of oil and gas companies are terminating their exploration activities in the Arctic. Does ExxonMobil still believe Arctic development is financially and environmentally viable? The Arctic represents the world’s largest remaining region of undiscovered conventional oil and gas resources. While developing these resources presents a variety of challenges, ExxonMobil has a strong portfolio of assets and opportu.nities in a range of Arctic environments. The company has operated in the region for nearly a century. We began by gaining a scientific understanding of the environment. Design and operational plans in Arctic locales, similar to everywhere we operate, are founded on our commitment to operating in an environmentally responsible and sustainable way. For example, our extended-reach drilling technologies have allowed for field development from land by drilling horizontally under the sea. This approach reduces the number of offshore structures required to recover oil and gas resources by drilling multiple, long-reach wells from the same location, which helps to reduce both underwater noise and our environmental footprint. We also use special earthquake- and frost-resistant pipelines in some northern areas. ExxonMobil developed the industry’s only dedicated, in-house Arctic research program more than 40 years ago. Continued Arctic technology development has allowed us to design, build and operate gravity-based platforms capable of withstanding 6-million-ton icebergs in the North Atlantic and operating year-round in ice-covered waters offshore Sakhalin Island in Russia. Additionally, we piloted and enhanced technologies in 2015 to monitor local wildlife and improve our environmental performance on Alaska’s North Slope. State-of-the-art technologies, including satellite-based remote sensing technology, ground surveillance radar and unmanned aerial systems, help us to monitor local wildlife near our operations and reduce our environmental impact. For more information about our technological innovations in Arctic wildlife protection, see the case study on page 56. How does ExxonMobil manage the risks associated with operating in water-stressed areas? We have a systematic process for assessing and managing the risks of our operations wherever we operate, and this includes, for example, how we manage water. This process includes a reassessment over the life of the project to identify changes in operations or environmental conditions. Our operations use alternative water sources, where appropriate, and seek opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle water. We consider multiple factors in determining the right approach for a given process or site, including costs, varied operational efficiencies, increased energy use or the consequences of producing more concentrated waste streams. Together, these factors help us determine site-specific approaches, which vary from site to site due to local conditions and availability. What impact has the company experienced since expanding its equal employment protections to include sexual orientation and gender identity in early 2015? ExxonMobil’s global policies have always prohibited all forms of discrimination in any company workplace, anywhere in the world. In the United States, ExxonMobil’s equal employment opportunity and harassment in the workplace policies were updated last year to explicitly include sexual orientation and gender identity, which is consistent with ExxonMobil’s long.standing practice of listing enumerated protected classes as defined by federal law. ExxonMobil supports a work environment that values diversity and inclusion, and has numerous inclusive programs and policies that help make ExxonMobil a great place to work. These include support for employee networks that foster a work environment committed to diversity and inclusion, such as People for Respect, Inclusion and Diversity of Employees (PRIDE), which supports lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees. Following the incident at the Torrance refinery, what measures has the company taken to address the potential for similar safety incidents at its other refineries? We deeply regret the incident. Thankfully, no one was seriously hurt. ExxonMobil takes all incidents seriously and is committed to learning from them and taking steps to prevent a recurrence. In addition to cooperating with all agencies investigating the incident, we have conducted our own, separate internal investigation led by a team of subject matter experts from across the corporation. The team spent several months on site interviewing witnesses, reviewing documents, inspecting equipment and preparing a comprehensive report that identified the direct cause of the incident, and made recommendations to prevent a recurrence. We are imple.menting the recommended changes in operating procedures, monitoring equipment and training at ExxonMobil refineries, and will share what we’ve learned with the refining industry. ExxonMobil’s key sustainability issues and challenges There have been a number of pipeline releases over the past several years; what is ExxonMobil doing to ensure the integrity of its pipelines? Pipeline transport is recognized as the safest means for moving oil and petroleum products. The immense system in the United States is a critical part of the country’s energy infrastructure, moving vital products from locations where they’re produced to the markets where they’re consumed — to fuel cars, heat our homes and power our economy. That said, we are committed to improving pipeline safety and carefully maintaining and monitoring our infrastructure. We have implemented enhanced surveying techniques and state-of-the-art inspection technologies and analyses of our pipelines. These surveys and inspection findings are helping us identify areas where we can strengthen our pipeline integrity. What is ExxonMobil doing to improve community relations in areas where it is conducting hydraulic fracturing operations? We believe an open dialogue is vital to our long-term success. Unconventional development is still relatively new in many areas where we operate, and we meet with local leaders and community members to find out what is important to the community and to listen to their questions and concerns. Naturally, people living near our operations are concerned that our work could disrupt their way of life. We strive to address their concerns, and we take actions to limit potential impacts, such as altering our traffic routes to avoid disrupting school bus traffic. We also provide site tours to community members so they can observe and ask questions about drilling, hydraulic fracturing and processing. No two communities are the same, and we have undertaken several approaches across the United States to establish a two-way dialogue with our stakeholders. These approaches include weekly community notices, community advisory panels, land conservation projects and town hall meetings. Our goal is more than just getting our work done — we want to be a good neighbor and productive member of the community, both before we begin work and throughout the life cycle of our projects. Do you find your approach to risk management to be effective in helping employees identify and address relevant safety, security, health and environmental risks and issues? ExxonMobil remains steadfast in its commitment to excellence in safety, security, health and environmental performance and operations integrity. Many of our operations and products represent potential risks to people and to the environment. Recognizing and managing these risks is inherent in our business, and we believe the best way to meet our commitment is through a capable, committed workforce, and practices designed to enable safe, secure and environmentally responsible operations. We accomplish this through clearly defined policies and practices and with rigorously applied management systems designed to deliver results. The Operations Integrity Management System, or OIMS, is a cornerstone of our commitment to managing risks and achieving excellence in performance. More than just a set of guidelines, OIMS is part of ExxonMobil’s corporate culture and the way we run our business. ExxonMobil Perspectives blog ExxonMobil’s key sustainability issues and challenges Case Study ExxonMobil’s Operations Integrity Management System Clive Smith, who worked at our Fawley refinery in the United Kingdom for more than 25 years, ensures the integrity of our equipment. ExxonMobil s OIMS framework establishes common expectations for addressing the safety, security, health and environment risks inherent in our business. ExxonMobil remains steadfast in our commitment to excel.lence in safety, security, health and environmental (SSH&E) performance, referred to collectively as operations integrity. Operations integrity extends to all aspects of our business that can impact SSH&E performance. We believe the best way to manage the integrity of our business is through a capable, committed workforce coupled with policies, practices and management systems designed to enable safe, secure and environmentally responsible operations. The Operations Integrity Management System The Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) is the cornerstone of our commitment to managing SSH&E risk and achieving operational excellence. Since the inception of OIMS in the early 1990s, we have significantly reduced our lost-time incident rates, demonstrated a remarkable decline in marine spills and contributed to continuing emission reductions. OIMS establishes a common framework for addressing SSH&E risk across all aspects of our operations, including our supply chain. At the global corporate level, the OIMS framework is built around 11 elements, as illustrated below, each covering a key aspect of risk across the breadth of ExxonMobil’s operations. Each element is comprised of a number of expectations, 65 in all, that provide greater detail. OIMS element 1 — management leadership, commitment and accountability — outlines the expectations of managers as they lead their organization through OIMS. OIMS element 11, operations integrity assessment and improvement, describes the requirements associated with how each operating unit evaluates the extent to which it is meeting the expectations of OIMS. These two elements are often referred to as the “bookends” of OIMS, with element 1 being the  “driver” and element 11 providing the feedback mechanism to ensure continuous improvement. Elements 2 through 10 address the operational, day-to-day aspects of OIMS, such as risk management, facilities design and construction, and personnel and training. All operating organizations are required to conform to the expectations described in OIMS. In order for the 11 elements and 65 expectations to be consistent and relevant across ExxonMobil’s diverse operational portfolio, our Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses have established detailed OIMS guidelines. These guidelines describe how each business unit addresses the 65 corporate expectations relevant to that business unit’s operations. Additionally, management is responsible for ensuring that management systems satisfying the framework are in place at each operating unit. OIMS includes a systematic, disciplined approach to measure progress and track accountability across business lines, facilities and projects. To drive continuous improvement, we evaluate opportunities to improve the OIMS framework by periodically reviewing and upgrading it. External standards and OIMS OIMS addresses the management of SSH&E risks at our operations worldwide. OIMS conforms to recognized safety, security, health and environmental standards, such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series for occupational health and safety management systems (OHSAS) and the American Chemistry Council (ACC) Responsible Care® requirements. In 2013, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. (LRQA) reviewed our ongoing performance and attested that OIMS is consistent with the intent and meets the requirements of the environmental management system ISO 14001:2004 and the occupational health and safety management system The OIMS framework OHSAS 18001:2007. This attestation is valid for three years, and our next attestation is scheduled to take place in 2016. Responsible Care® is the chemical industry’s comprehensive health, safety, security and environmental performance improvement initiative. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. also certifies OIMS conformance to Responsible Care Management System® Technical Specification RC101.04 per ACC’s requirements. Systems within OIMS are linked to the relevant Responsible Care Management System® expectations. This approach allows ExxonMobil to run its business through one SSH&E management system, OIMS, and align with local and global standards. Operations  2 Risk assessment and management  3 Facilities design and construction  4 Information/ documentation  5 Personnel and training  6 Operations and maintenance  7 Management of change  8  9  10  Third-party  Incident  Community  services  investigation  awareness and  and analysis  emergency preparedness  The Operations Integrity Management System framework is built around 11 elements, each covering a key aspect of risk across ExxonMobil’s global operations. ExxonMobil’s culture of risk management Application of OIMS is required across all of ExxonMobil’s operations, with particular emphasis on design, construction and operations. Regardless of job function, all ExxonMobil employees and third-party contractors have the responsibility and expectation to identify, assess and mitigate the risks associated with their activities and ExxonMobil operations. “OIMS is the way we do business. It ensures that we manage SSH&E risks in a consistent and reliable manner to achieve operational excellence. OIMS is embedded in our culture and has resulted in behaviors that reflect our core values.” Paul Schuberth Upstream safety, security, health and environment manager OIMS enables ExxonMobil — a large organization that operates across diverse cultures and geographies — to speak the same language when it comes to safety and risk management. The OIMS framework is embedded in ExxonMobil’s company culture. In 2013, as part of our commitment to continual improvement, we introduced a new training experience called the OIMS Leadership Academy. The training is aimed at enhancing the OIMS leadership skills of supervisors and managers, who then lead and run the business with more effective utilization of OIMS, thus improving SSH&E performance and minimizing incidents. In total, we have trained more than 1,000 supervisors in 36 courses. OIMS and corporate citizenship Our approach to corporate citizenship is intended to contribute to society’s broader sustainability objectives. We believe OIMS plays a key role in ExxonMobil’s corporate citizenship efforts by communicating expectations to employees, measuring progress and helping ensure results adhere to our SSH&E commitments. For example, OIMS element 6 requires the leadership teams running our facilities to anticipate and meet all applicable laws, regulations, permits and other governmental requirements and ensure the resulting operating requirements are documented and communicated to those affected. We periodically verify compliance of our operations with these obligations. We recognize that the impact of our operations extends beyond our work sites, and therefore element 10 of OIMS addresses community awareness and emergency preparedness. Effective management of stakeholder relationships is important to enhance the trust and confidence of the communities where we operate. Emergency planning and preparedness are essential to ensure that, in the event of an incident, all necessary actions are taken for the protection of the public, our personnel, the environment and our assets. For example, continued application of OIMS principles in our drilling operations helps us achieve our vision of Nobody Gets Hurt. In 2005, our drilling operations developed the hurt-free approach to personnel safety. The hurt-free approach was developed as an alternative to traditional treatment-based programs to align with the vision of Nobody Gets Hurt. It provides a framework that enables a culture of caring while also allowing for insightful trends analysis through consistent assessment of actual incident severity and potential consequence. In response to its success in our drilling operations, we rolled out the approach to the Upstream business in 2012 and are now implementing it company-wide. We hold internal and external workshops and collaborative meetings to promote the hurt-free approach across the corporation and across our industry. We have been able to demonstrate that drilling operations can be performed all over the world in a safe and environmentally sound manner, whether in an Arctic environment or other high-risk environments with appropriate application of risk management principles and programs. We will not sacrifice the safety of our employees or our contractors in order to deliver on our commitments to business partners and shareholders. Safety, health and the workplace Jessica Berkey, a worker at our Joliet Refinery in Illinois, United States. The Joliet Refinery employs more than 600 people and is a leader in energy efficiency among U.S. refineries. No matter where in the world we work, we are relentless in our pursuit of Nobody Gets Hurt. At ExxonMobil, our efforts to protect the safety and health of our employees, contractors and communities are fundamental to our long-term business success. As such, we are committed to providing the energy needed to power the world’s progress safely and responsibly. We seek to promote a culture of safety and health by attracting, developing and retaining individuals who share our core values and our commitment to integrity and operational excellence. Safety At ExxonMobil, safety is more than just a priority — it is a core value and an integral part of our culture that applies to every aspect of our operations. Wherever we are in the world, we are committed to doing the right thing, the right way, every time so that every employee and contractor comes home from work safe and healthy each day. We will never stop working toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. “We all have a responsibility to manage risk as part of our roles, be that technical, operational or financial. Identifying, assessing and managing the risks is key to our operations integrity. I am proud to see the leadership and commitment toward safety everywhere I go, embedded in our corporate culture around the world. We are truly relentless as we work toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt.” Lynne Lachenmyer Safety, security, health and environment vice president ExxonMobil’s Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) drives the sustainability of our disciplined approach to safety. OIMS is embedded in our everyday work and serves as the foundation for managing our risks. For more information about OIMS, see page 15. As a result of our disciplined approach, we continue to reduce incidents and work toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. However, when an accident or near miss does occur, we investigate the incident and all potential outcomes and evaluate barriers to preventing future occurrences. As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we look at leading indicators that allow for a closer analysis of incidents with potentially severe consequences in order to enhance our risk prevention and mitigation. We then share incidents through our global networks to ensure lessons learned are implemented across our worldwide operations. Personnel safety Regardless of job function, all ExxonMobil employees and third-party contractors have the responsibility and expectation to identify, assess and mitigate the risks associated with our operations. Over the past 10 years, we have reduced our workforce lost-time incident rate by more than 30 percent. We will continue to work toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. We deeply regret that two of our contractors were fatally injured in two separate incidents related to ExxonMobil operations in 2015. The incidents were related to work at one Lost-time incident rate1 Incidents per 200,000 work hours 0.30 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark In 2015, our workforce lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.034, slightly higher than the previous year. Over the past decade, we have reduced this rate by more than 30 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to be below the industry average. 1Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year, around 5 to 10 percent of the incidents are illness-related. of our fueling stations and installation of electrical hardware at one of our major projects. We thoroughly investigated these incidents to determine contributing factors, then identified steps to prevent similar incidents and enhanced our work practices and facilities accordingly. We have processes in place to look at all incidents, even those that did not result in injuries, to understand the potential consequences. By applying this process, we seek to learn from any incident. We will relentlessly pursue this goal until we achieve our stated vision of Nobody Gets Hurt. As part of our operations-wide dedication to safety, we strive for effective collaboration between all workers, including third-party suppliers and contractors. Every day, our contractors take part in safety training and safety meetings alongside our employees. A key element in our strategy for contractors is the enhancement of leadership Total recordable incident rate2 Incidents per 200,000 work hours 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark In 2015, ExxonMobil’s total recordable workforce incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.24, a slight decrease from 2014. Over the past decade, we have reduced this rate by more than 30 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to be below the industry average. 2Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year, around 5 to 10 percent of the incidents are illness-related. practices and safety management systems. Since 2000, we have conducted ongoing safety leadership forums with the contractors working on our major projects, with the focus on establishing a partnership between ExxonMobil and our contractors that leads to an injury-free workplace. For example, within our portfolio of Arctic projects, the Sakhalin-1 project held its 12th annual contractor safety forum on Sakhalin Island for about 200 people. Local author.ities, contractors and Exxon Neftegas Limited managers emphasized the importance of making a difference with our core safety, security, health and environmental (SSH&E) values including Nobody Gets Hurt and Protect Tomorrow. Today. The forum covered topics including eliminating high conse.quence incidents, health awareness, environmental protection and community contributions. For more information about Protect Tomorrow. Today., see page 46. Our affiliate, Esso Angola, achieved its best safety perfor.mance during significantly expanded activity in production, drilling and project execution, including the completion of Phase 2 of the Kizomba Satellites project. This notable safety performance was a result of the continuous hard work of affiliate personnel as well as strong engagement in safety pro.grams, such as “boots on the ground,” a program designed to increase supervisor and employee engagement at the work.place. By increasing this interaction, supervisors can better mentor newly hired staff around our desired safety culture, one in which our employees care for each other. Boots on the ground program “Achieving success has a lot to do with effective collaboration and a team approach with all involved, including our contrac.tors, co-ventures and the government of Angola.” Edson Dos Santos Kizomba C operations superintendent Up Close: Safety milestones and awards We are proud of our culture of safety, and we strive to be a global safety leader. One of the most significant measures for ExxonMobil as a company is our safety performance. In 2015, ExxonMobil and our affiliates around the world achieved the following safety milestones and awards: • The Odoptu Stage 2 project on the northeastern coast of Sakhalin Island, Russia, safely completed 3.8 million hours of work at the Odoptu site in 2015, and a total of 7.7 million hours since project site work began in late 2012, without a recordable or lost-time injury. The strong safety performance is the result of engaged leadership and a team-wide commitment to embracing the core values in safety, security, health and environment. • In June 2015, ExxonMobil’s Rotterdam refinery in the Netherlands received a VOMI Safety eXperience Award. VOMI is a trade organization in the Netherlands for companies in the process industry. The VOMI Safety eXperience Award is a new initiative aimed to increase the level of safety awareness perceived by people working “on the shop floor.” Through this award, VOMI gives a voice to an especially important group of people for whom this level of safety is critical. Workers commemorate safety performance at our Odoptu site on Sakhalin Island in 2015. • ExxonMobil’s venture office in Rio De Janeiro, Brazil, passed a safety milestone in 2015, achieving more than 1 million hours of safe work. This achievement represents an accumulation of 18 years of team effort and safety focus. • In 2015, the Malaysian Society for Occupational Safety and Health honored our Kuala Lumpur business support center (KLBSC) with the 2014 Occupational Safety and Health Gold Class I Award, the highest award given in the sector. The award recognizes our exceptional safety and health management and performance in various areas. “We could not have achieved this honor without strong support from the other functions in Malaysia such as facilities and SSH&E, as well as the management team. The prestigious award highlights the strong commitment toward safety by KLBSC employees and is a testament to ExxonMobil’s commitment to strong safety programs.” Chin Chien Hoong Site lead, KLBSC In 2015, we continued to look for ways to prevent high-Eliminate serious incidents potential incidents in our operations. For example, we are At ExxonMobil, we look to ensure effective barriers are intact. exploring technologies that detect a worker’s presence in the blind spots of heavy construction equipment to avoid accidents. We have taken our experience and shared it in Know the major hazards construction industry forums to advance these technologies Major asset-specific hazards by encouraging use beyond the oil and gas industry.  are known. Process safety Understand the barriers Our commitment to process safety — the equipment, Barriers are defined and individual responsibilities procedures and training that prevent the uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons and hazardous substances — is a core value are assigned to protect from and mitigate risks. stakeholder trust. When such incidents do occur, we are committed to learning from them and taking steps to prevent We subscribe to the American Petroleum Institute (API) a recurrence. We deeply regret the incident that occurred on Recommended Practice 754 and the International Association February 18, 2015, at the Torrance refinery and are thankful that shapes risk management across our operations. We seek to ensure our facilities are well-designed and safely operated to prevent potential safety incidents. To that end, we use a comprehensive and disciplined approach to identify, eliminate or manage process safety risks associated with our operations, which employs layers of preventive and mitigative barriers, including equipment, processes and people, as illustrated in the graphic on the right. Maintain barrier health Barrier effectiveness is assessed and regularly discussed. “When managing process safety, we focus on both facility 2014. Tier 1 process safety events are tracked and analyzed in Bob Bailes Lagging indicators risks and human performance risks. It takes relentless Process safety incident triangle leadership throughout the organization with mechanisms to ensure accountability at all levels and verification that these risks are managed effectively 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year.” Downstream and Chemical safety, security, health and environment manager eading indicators Lour overall efforts to prevent significant events. In 2015, events occurred in various phases of our operations and include equipment malfunction and person or equipment interface. Event analysis is used to enhance our prevention efforts and organizational learning. Our focus on process safety remains high, with a continued emphasis on ensuring that preventive and mitigative barriers are in place. We recognize that a significant process safety event at any site affects everyone in the industry by eroding of Oil & Gas Producers No. 456, which are industry standards. These standards define process safety indicators and use a process safety incident triangle to represent events from Tier 1 through Tier 4, as seen on the left. Tiers 1 and 2 include incidents resulting in a loss of primary containment (LOPC). According to the API, LOPC is defined as an unplanned or there were no serious injuries or community health impacts. We are working with regulators to thoroughly investigate the incident, and we are applying the lessons learned by enhancing operating procedures, monitoring equipment and training at ExxonMobil refineries. We will share our findings with the refining industry to help prevent future occurrences. uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment, including nontoxic and nonflammable materials. Tiers 3 and Collaborating with our peers and industry associations on 4 represent near-misses and leading performance measures process safety is paramount to sharing lessons learned As part of the American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers No. 456 industry such as on-time maintenance performance. In 2015, we had within our company and across our industry. ExxonMobil standards, the process safety incident triangle is used to represent events 74 Tier 1 process safety events, which is slightly higher than serves as a contributing member to a variety of groups and from Tier 1 through Tier 4. initiatives focused on improving safety in the industry. For example, we actively engage in the Advancing Process Safety initiative, a collaborative effort between the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers and the API, representing nearly all of the U.S. refining capacity. This initiative is focused on improving process safety performance across the industry by sharing experiences and knowledge about process safety events, hazard identification metrics and industry-proven practices. Product safety and responsibility We recognize the importance of managing and communi.cating product safety information to those who handle and use ExxonMobil products, including employees and contractors within our operations as well as with our customers, consumers, governments and regulators. To promote product stewardship, we carefully assess the safety, health and environmental aspects of our products, as well as compliance with product safety legislation for all intended markets. ExxonMobil’s approach to product safety is defined by the product safety policy, found within ExxonMobil’s Standards of Business Conduct. Each ExxonMobil business unit has devel.oped management systems that address the key elements in our product safety policy. These management systems are reviewed on a routine basis to ensure compliance with the policy. Additionally, components of the management systems are in line with product safety guidelines developed by IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environ.mental and social issues, and the International Council of Chemical Associations. A key component of these systems is the communication of the potential hazards and risks from the use of our products. Our rigorous Product Stewardship Information Management System applies common global processes and computer systems to capture and communicate information on the safe handling, transport, use and disposal of our products, as well as emergency contact information. This system enables ExxonMobil businesses to comply with changing regional and national hazard communication regulations with the adoption of the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling Chemicals developed by the United Nations. In the past year, more than 27,000 safety data sheets for ExxonMobil products and manufacturing streams have been authored and distributed as part of the implementation of this guidance by several national and regional regulatory authorities, including: • Argentina • New Caledonia • Brazil • Singapore • Israel • Turkey • Korea • United States • Malaysia In 2015, the Association of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM) awarded ExxonMobil China the Chairman’s Award in Responsible Care for exemplary achievement in safety, health and environmental performance. This is the second time that our operations in China have been recognized by AICM for its safe chemical product management and handling.  Over the past several years, the industry has seen a significant increase in the utilization of rail transport for crude oil, primarily due to new unconventional production sources. In the North American market, ExxonMobil manages one of the largest shipper rail fleets in our industry to move our crude oil, plastics, chemicals, lubricants and fuels products to customers. We believe safe transport by rail is a shared responsibility, covering rail maintenance, train operations, rail car integrity and emergency response. We have comprehensive risk management plans in place to help ensure rail transportation of all products is conducted in a safe manner. These plans address rail car design as well as loading and unloading procedures. Additionally, we regularly engage with our industry peers and emergency responders to promote the safe transport of oil products and develop improved training programs for public responders across North America. Emergency preparedness and response The ability to respond to emergencies promptly is critical, and we conduct extensive training and drills to prepare for such situations. At ExxonMobil, we believe effective emergency preparedness requires competent response teams. To that end, we establish strategic emergency support groups (ESGs) around the world to develop and practice emergency response strategies and assist field responders. We routinely train ESG members, a wide variety of ExxonMobil employees, on a range of possible scenarios, including simulated spills, fires, explosions, natural disasters and security incidents. In 2015, 550 employees participated in 35 ESG training sessions. ExxonMobil takes a disciplined and structured “command and control” approach to emergency preparedness that is based on clear communication. Regardless of the size of an event, each ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to a wide array of trained responders, including our regional response teams (RRTs), which provide rapid tactical support when needed. Our three RRTs — North America; Europe, Africa and Middle East; and Asia Pacific — address tactical issues associated with the field response. The RRTs comprise approximately 500 ExxonMobil personnel trained in one consistent management system with common roles and responsibilities. In total, the RRTs completed four training exercises in 2015, with approximately 400 ExxonMobil participants. In May 2015, the North America RRT held a two-day exercise in Seattle, Washington, for ExxonMobil affiliate SeaRiver Maritime. As part of the exercise, participants responded to a simulated release of 80,000 barrels of oil from a marine vessel. One key objective of the exercise included educating participants on the value and use of a net environmental benefit analysis Up Close: Expanding emergency preparedness and response capabilities ExxonMobil is committed to improving our emergency preparedness by enhancing our response programs, processes and training offerings. In 2015, the emergency preparedness and response center of excellence supported ExxonMobil Upstream affiliates in implementing a global incident command system (ICS). By implementing this system globally, ExxonMobil can utilize common response processes that allow personnel from different affiliates to easily assist one another if needed. The ExxonMobil RRTs also use ICS, which allows them to seamlessly integrate into affiliate teams. to mitigate impacts from a crude oil release. Additionally, in October 2015, ExxonMobil executed an oil spill response deployment exercise at our Baytown complex in Texas. The exercise was intended to meet regulatory requirements as well as demonstrate our North America RRT’s response readiness abilities. In total, more than 120 personnel were involved in the training event, including volunteers from our refining and supply, midstream, chemical and production operations. “The quality of the exercise and high degree of professional.ism by all involved is a clear demonstration of ExxonMobil’s commitment to emergency preparedness and response. I was also very encouraged to see such a strong partnership with the regulatory agencies that participated.” Lisa VanderLaan Safety, security, health and environment support manager We continually look for innovative ways to provide emergency preparedness and response training in a safe and controlled environment. For example, we are exploring the use of Our use of ICS is aligned with the National Incident Management System and allows us to respond in a seamless fashion with federal, state, local and tribal responders in the United States and abroad. In addition to ICS, we are rolling out a common operating picture (COP). COP is a computing platform based on geographic information system (GIS) technology that provides a single source of data and information to improve situational awareness and accelerates decision-making for emergency response or project planning activities. The GIS data and information can be from ExxonMobil sources as well as publicly available information to depict “big picture” images of places and situations. Both ICS and COP have been successfully implemented in the United States, with an emphasis on the Gulf of Mexico, as well as piloted internationally during Upstream exercises in Australia, Indonesia and Russia. We have also rolled out ICS to our operations in Angola, Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Malaysia and Norway. immersive 3-D simulator technology for conducting emer.gency response training for plant operators. This technology uses ultra-realistic virtual reality operating conditions to create lifelike training scenarios. We are currently testing a full-scale simulator of an actual gas processing facility in Qatar to provide realistic training on more than 300 interactive control devices in six gas processing units. Workplace security Ensuring the security of our people, physical assets and intellectual property is systematically embedded in our daily operations. We employ consistent worldwide practices to address security challenges in the diverse locations where we do business. Our new facilities go through a security analysis that takes into account potential risks, the application of countermeasures, relationships with communities and compliance with applicable laws. ExxonMobil regularly assesses potential threats to our operations. Our security personnel commonly participate in security-related drills, training and industry forums to enhance our established risk management methodologies, threat-assessment capabilities and technical security appli.cations. In higher-risk locations, we monitor local conditions and maintain detailed security preparedness plans, such as evacuation and intruder response plans. Security-related response plan review and training was a key area of interest for ExxonMobil in 2015. Employees traveling to and residing in severe- and high-threat countries received specialized training designed to provide information about potential threats and appropriate responses in challenging security environments. Security-related plans were also reviewed and refreshed to better ensure response to events were effective and efficient. As the threat of cybersecurity continues to evolve, we must protect our business against the growing risk of cyberattacks, which can potentially affect our data, facilities and operations. In 2015, 100 percent of our employees and contractors completed Web-based cybersecurity training on how to identify and respond to potential cybersecurity risks, in addition to an ongoing awareness program to reinforce safe computing behaviors. On average, our cybersecurity screening programs block more than 64 million emails, 139 million Internet access attempts and 133,000 other potentially malicious actions each month. Health and wellness ExxonMobil cares about the health and well-being of our workforce and their families. Our health policy communicates the corporate expectations for identifying and evaluating health risks related to our operations that can potentially affect our employees, contractors or the public. We seek to address the diverse health considerations prevalent in the different locations in which we work by creating effective and efficient solutions that protect our workforce and operations from major health threats. We also provide voluntary health programs to our employees that are designed to promote enhanced well-being and productivity. To ensure our occupational health risks are credibly assessed, prioritized and documented, we utilize an exposure assessment strategy to identify and evaluate health risks related to our operations, as identified by OIMS. Health hazard exposure assessments for field work activities are conducted by our industrial hygiene professionals using a comprehensive global approach that not only identifies and evaluates health hazards, but also provides for risk-based prioritization. To protect our workers and their families while preventing potential operation disruptions, ExxonMobil developed prevention, control and monitoring programs that address the threat of infectious diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, Ebola and other outbreaks. For example, our Malaria Control Program is designed to prevent and quickly manage malaria cases among employees and contractors working in or traveling to malaria-prone areas. Since 2007, no malaria-related deaths among ExxonMobil workers have been reported. In addition, no operational disruptions due to an infectious disease outbreak have been reported in company workplaces since 2010. For information about our efforts to eliminate malaria in the communities where we operate, see page 66. Leveraging our ongoing efforts to combat infectious diseases enabled us to swiftly mobilize to help communities address the Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa, which took a toll on the region and resulted in more than 11,000 deaths from 2014 to 2015. During that time, ExxonMobil worked to ensure the safety of our employees and contractors in the region, none of whom were directly impacted by the virus. In total, ExxonMobil contributed more than $670,000 to Ebola-related community health investments. ExxonMobil’s Culture of Health is our U.S.-based health and wellness program, which is designed to support the health of our employees and reduce health care costs. We provide collaborative health education, nutrition and fitness programs that are formatted to meet the needs of a variety of work environments such as offices and manufacturing sites. Additionally, we offer employees health coaching and disease management. Supporting a culture of health outside the United States is also a priority. Our Culture of Health pilot programs in Argentina, Malaysia, Nigeria and the United Kingdom moved into sustainment phase at the end of 2015. In each country, we develop programs within the context of different health care systems, health needs and available resources. We offer benefits plans that comply with or exceed applicable country laws or regulations. In recent years, ExxonMobil has taken a leadership role in minimizing and mitigating worker fatigue, which has the potential to impact the health and safety of our workforce. Studies show that, in addition to being safer, individuals who are rested and alert are less likely to experience personal health issues including cardiovascular, immune and psychosocial conditions. Because of this, we have implemented relevant programs at a variety of our sites, including refineries, chemical plants and pipeline operations in the United States, as well as some of our Upstream facilities in Canada. Additionally, we have started integrating personal fatigue management into our Culture of Health programs. Workforce We consider our approximately 73,500 employees to be our greatest asset. For this reason, ExxonMobil seeks to foster a diverse workforce of highly talented individuals who are dedicated to integrity, high-quality work and good corporate citizenship. Our career-oriented approach to developing an exceptional workforce includes recruiting outstanding talent and supporting long-term professional development. Employment practices and policies As a global organization, the diversity and inclusion of thought, skill, knowledge and culture across our company facilitates innovation and is a key competitive advantage. Through a range of programs, activities and investments, we strive to create and maintain a diverse workforce representative of the numerous geographies where we do business. Our Global Diversity Framework is the foundation for this approach, with three interrelated objectives: • Attract, develop and retain a premier workforce from the broadest possible pool to meet our business needs worldwide. • Actively foster a productive work environment that allows every employee to contribute fully to the achievement of superior business results — an environment where individual and cultural differences are respected and valued, and where all employees are encouraged to achieve their ultimate potential. • Identify and develop leadership capabilities for performing effectively in a variety of international and cultural environments. Global Diversity Booklet “I have worked in several geographies and financial positions with individuals from many different backgrounds and cultures. I am constantly reminded that we have a large number of capable individuals with differing skills and approaches throughout this company. It is important that they are all engaged in furthering our business objectives. We accomplish this by providing an environment where everyone can contribute and can continually grow and develop both personally and professionally.” Carol Peters Associate general tax counsel Up Close: ExxonMobil’s Houston campus In 2015, ExxonMobil completed construction of a new state-of-the-art campus in Houston, Texas, which hosts around 10,000 employees in our Upstream, Downstream and Chemical companies and associated service groups. We believe the campus will foster improved health and wellness among employees and enhance our ability to attract, develop and retain the top talent in the industry. The campus design is based on extensive research into best practices in workplace health, wellness and collaboration.  For example, the campus is designed with an open floor plan that optimizes the use of natural light and encourages collabo.rative opportunities for its co-located businesses and services. Specifically, the campus features highly networked, shared, multipurpose work spaces that create a collaborative work environment. In addition to increased collaboration, research indicates that the open floorplan concept can lead to improved productivity, engagement and innovation over the long term. “The combination of our new central SSH&E organization and co-location at the new campus has brought our environment, regulatory and socioeconomic professionals together like never before. It has enabled collaboration within our organization and across our business lines both on a large and small scale, facilitating learnings and sharing of best practices. Individuals who may have interacted once or twice every couple years previously now see each other on a daily basis and seek input from individuals from diverse backgrounds.” Christine Byrne Environment manager The campus also features an extensive network of paths and walkways linking it with natural and cultivated landscapes. Surveys at the campus identified 343 ecologically valuable trees, of which 213 were preserved in place. Professional arborists moved the remaining trees to other locations within the campus and are providing observation and care to ensure their continued health. We also installed a system to collect rainwater from the property. More than 80 percent of the water used on site is reclaimed and reused for cooling and irrigation needs. Overall, the campus uses 90 percent less potable water than the national average for commercial buildings. To support a healthy lifestyle among employees, the Houston campus includes a 100,000 square-foot wellness center complete with a three-story glass atrium, cardio and strength training facilities, a basketball court and personal training services. By the end of 2015, more than 30 percent of the campus residents had enrolled in the campus wellness center. ExxonMobil cares about the well-being of our employees as well as their families. The on-campus Explorers Club is designed to provide ExxonMobil employees with quality child care services for children ages six weeks to pre-kindergarten. Additionally, campus residents enjoy a wide array of on-site healthy dining venues to support a sustainable diet. Dining selections include a variety of nutritional options and choices for special diets, all of which align with ExxonMobil’s Culture of Health program. Menu boards at the respective stations outline the most current Culture of Health menu options, which are periodically offered at employee events. Our Standards of Business Conduct govern all aspects of our employment, including recruitment, hiring, work assignments, promotions, transfers and terminations, as well as wage and salary administration. The Standards support our commitment to provide equal employment opportunities, prohibit harassment and discrimination in the workplace and align with applicable laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. We provide training on the Standards for new employees and offer regular refresher courses to current employees. Additionally, we use a series of Web-based trainings and tools to help our employees understand effective communication and cultural sensitivities across a diverse workforce. We strictly prohibit any form of discrimination by or toward employees, contractors, suppliers or customers in any ExxonMobil working environment. Standards of Business Conduct 2015 workforce by geographic region3 Thousands of employees Africa/Middle East 3.9 Canada 7.0 Asia Pacific 13.3 Europe 15.3 In 2015, our total workforce was approximately 73,500, slightly lower than the total workforce in 2014. The largest concentration of ExxonMobil employees is in the United States with 30,400, followed by Europe and Asia Pacific with 15,300 and 13,300, respectively. Our global reach directly contributes to the diversity of our workforce and the success of our business. 3Data exclude company-operated retail store employees. Latin America 3.6 Our global policies promote diversity and inclusion and prohibit any form of discrimination, including those based on sexual orientation and gender identity. At ExxonMobil, harassment, even in its most subtle forms, directly conflicts with company policy and is not tolerated. Every employee is subject to disciplinary action, including termination, for any act of harassment. We employ a comprehensive training and stewardship program to ensure employees worldwide understand, implement and follow our anti-harassment policy. Additionally, our annual reporting and compliance procedures include a letter to senior managers emphasizing their responsibility to maintain work environments free from harassment and discrimination. Diversity and inclusion We support local employee networks to foster an environ.ment committed to diversity and inclusion. The voluntary, employee-led groups offer networking, development pro.grams and community service, and proactively mentor and assimilate new employees. Some of these networks include: • Asian Connection for Excellence (ACE) • Black Employee Success Team (BEST) • Global Organization for the Advancement of Latinos (GOAL) • People for Respect, Inclusion and Diversity of Employees (PRIDE) • Veteran Advocacy and Support Team (VAST) • Women’s Interest Network (WIN) We engage a wide range of education programs and recruiting activities that are intended to reach out to a diverse pool of highly qualified employment candidates. ExxonMobil’s internships and financial aid initiatives play a key role in our diversity recruiting, through practical work experience, scholarships and university grants. We also support professional organizations such as the National Society of Black Engineers, Society of Women Engineers, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, among others. ExxonMobil believes these strategic investments in education will help build a source of diverse, talented individuals. For more information on our education initiatives, see page 66. “My WIN leadership team’s role is to promote individual and collective growth to support women to achieve their ultimate potential. We serve as a catalyst to improve business acumen, promote fellowship to enhance contributions to the business and cultivate hundreds of successful mentoring relationships that help women achieve their career goals. I am proud of our WIN accomplishments, which are reflected in the growth and advancement of women in technical and leadership roles.” Sujata Bhatia Project manager, gas and power marketing Women’s Interest Network chair We remain committed to improving the gender balance within our company. ExxonMobil promotes leadership opportunities for women throughout all aspects of the employment relationship, including recruitment, hiring, training, promotions, transfers and wage and salary 2015 percentage of women and minorities by position in the United States Based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reporting Women 16.6% 31.9% 26.1% Minorities 17.1% 26.1% 25.2% Officials and managers Professionals Total employees In the United States, women accounted for approximately 26 percent of our U.S. workforce in 2015, with more than 16 percent in leadership positions. Similarly, in 2015 minorities accounted for 25 percent of total U.S. employees and our minority representation in leadership was 17 percent. Up Close: Employee resource groups We believe the training, skills and experiences of veterans are a valuable component to a diverse, productive organization. In 2014, we created our newest employee resource group, the Veteran Advocacy and Support Team (VAST), which provides mentoring, coaching and networking opportunities designed to enhance the personal and professional development of our veterans and those who continue to serve. VAST also welcomes non-veteran employees to participate in the program. In total, VAST supports more than 690 employees. In addition to helping onboard ExxonMobil employees who are former or current military service personnel, VAST also focuses on facilitating recruitment, assimilation, retention and advancement of veterans. In November 2015, VAST hosted a Veterans Day event at our Houston campus. The event brought together veterans and veteran supporters administration. In 2015, 41 percent of our worldwide management and professional new hires were women. This is significantly higher than the percentage of women in our broader employee population at 28 percent. In the United States, 33 percent of our 2015 engineering hires were female, higher than the U.S. percentage of female engineering students. Approximately 17 percent of our executive employees worldwide are women, an increase of 50 percent over the past decade. This increase, in part, is a result of continued focus on early identification of female management development candidates. Notably, 29 percent of our early career stage executive employees worldwide are women. For more information on how we advance opportunities for women worldwide, see page 66. To increase the representation of minorities in our U.S. operations, our hiring programs include outreach initiatives to identify diverse candidates. For example, through our technical scholarship program, we award scholarships to ExxonMobil minority interns to assist them in completing their college degrees. In 2015, we provided 44 technical scholarships, an increase of 80 percent over the past 10 years. from across ExxonMobil’s operations. In total, more than 200 people attended the event, during which U.S. Air Force Major General Giovanni Tuck discussed the similarities and interdependencies between defense logistics and the energy industry, as well as the skills and experiences veterans provide to the business community. “As veterans and ExxonMobil employees, my wife Ruth and I co-founded VAST to be a resource for veterans seeking to leverage their proven leadership skills and diverse life experiences. We seek to provide mentorship and professional development, which is beneficial both for employees and the company.” Jeff Vargo Construction supervisor, ExxonMobil Development Company VAST co-founder “As a technical scholarship recipient, I was able to grow academically and professionally in the chemical industry. The scholarship program helped me build a quick network of peers and mentors. ExxonMobil has provided the opportunity to apply the concepts and skills I learned at Howard University, and I am excited to continue learning and developing in my role as a process contact engineer since joining the company in 2015.” Jamille Jamison Contact engineer In 2015, 35 percent of management and professional new hires in the United States were minorities. Further, 37 percent of our engineering hires were minorities, significantly higher than the percentage of U.S. minorities in our broader popu.lation. Of our U.S. executives, approximately 14 percent are minorities, an increase of 70 percent over the past decade facilitated by a consistent focus on minority management development. Notably, 14 percent of early career U.S. executive employees in 2015 were minorities. U.S. Air Force Major General Giovanni Tuck presents to VAST members during a Veterans Day event hosted at the Houston campus. 2015 percentage of female management and professional new hires by geographic region Worldwide total 41% Europe, Africa and Middle East 41% Asia Pacific 51% Latin America 59% North America 32% In 2015, 41 percent of our worldwide management and professional new hires were women, significantly higher than the percentage of women in our broader employee population. Retention and engagement Our global, diverse workforce represents a competitive advan.tage for ExxonMobil. We retain and develop our employees by providing an environment where personal and professional growth is encouraged and career objectives are developed and achieved. We communicate openly with our employees through frequent one-on-one and team discussions as well as larger organizational meetings. All employees undergo an annual performance assessment and development process, during which they have the opportunity to engage in a structured, documented discussion with their supervisors about work accomplishments, learning objectives, development oppor.tunities and career interests. This process, coupled with company training, mentorship programs and networking opportunities, provide the basis for ongoing employee growth and continual performance improvement. ExxonMobil offers robust corporate and technical training programs designed to engage employees in professional development. In 2015, our major business units spent $124 million on training employees. Of that, we directed 84 percent toward professional and technical training. In 2015, more than 5,000 employees at various levels of the company participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training programs, of which 32 percent were women and 48 percent were employees from outside the United States. ExxonMobil also offers a variety of workplace flexibility programs to maintain engagement and maximize productivity by addressing individual employee needs. These workplace Employee benefits Our benefits programs are an integral part of a total remuner.ation package designed to support our long-term business objectives, as well as attract, retain and reward the most qualified employees. Our goal is to be responsive to the needs of employees throughout their careers and into retirement. Ensuring access to affordable health care helps employees effectively manage health care issues and reduces related financial concerns. Our funding levels of qualified pension plans comply with applicable laws and regulations. Defined benefit pension obligations are fully supported by the financial strength of ExxonMobil or the respective sponsoring affiliate. The company provides retirement benefits that support our long-term career orientation and business models. Training expenditures and number of employees trained 2011 $80 2012 $88 2013 $96 2014 $117 2015 $124 65,0002011 Up Close: Sustainability training for Chemical employees We view all of our employees as ambassadors for ExxonMobil. Our employees can help communicate our internal efforts and explain our positions on important topics to the outside world. By including the topic of sustainability in our company training offerings, we can help ensure employees understand our approach to sustainability and can effectively communicate our sustainability objectives to people outside the company. Since 2011, we have offered face-to-face training on sustainability to commercially facing ExxonMobil Chemical Company (EMCC) employees. In 2015, we expanded our sustainability training to all EMCC employees as part of a new computer-based training platform to help broaden exposure to the topic beyond just the commercial organization. This computer-based training includes introductory-level information such as the definition of sustainability, how EMCC incorporates sustainability into its operations, emerging sustainability challenges and how individuals can contribute to sustainability at home and at work. Since the computer-based training was launched in August 2015, 857 Chemical employees and 75 other employees have taken the course. flexibility programs differ based on the legal requirements, 2012 76,000 infrastructure and culture of locations where we do business. Examples of workplace flexibility programs include adaptable  2013  87,000  workplace arrangements, modified workweek, part-time  2014  79,000  regular employment and adjustable work hours.  2015  85,000  Spending (millions of dollars) Employees trained (non-unique participants) Sustainability In 2015, ExxonMobil spent $124 million on training employees. In total, 85,000 non-unique participants at various levels of the company participated in ExxonMobil training programs in 2015, a 31 percent increase since 2011. For information on ExxonMobil’s approach to sustainable development, see page 8. Managing climate change risks Harold Johnson, lab technician at our Products Technology Center in Paulsboro, New Jersey, examines a motor oil sample. Since 2000, ExxonMobil has spent approximately $7 billion to develop lower emission energy solutions. Society continues to face the dual challenge of meeting energy demand to support the economic growth needed for improved living standards, while simultaneously addressing the risks posed by rising greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. While future temperature changes and the associated impacts are difficult to accurately predict, we believe the risks of climate change are real and warrant thoughtful action. ExxonMobil supports advancement of the scientific understanding of climate change and is committed to providing affordable energy to support human progress while advancing effective solutions to address the risks of climate change. Our climate change risk management strategy includes four components: engaging on climate change policy, developing future technology, mitigating greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and developing solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions for our customers. Engaging on climate change policy Climate change is a global issue that requires the collaboration of governments, companies, consumers and other stakeholders to create global solutions. We believe countries need to work together to craft policies aimed at mitigating greenhouse gas emissions that recognize the priorities and needs of both developed and developing countries. We engage stakeholders directly and with trade associations around the world to encourage sound policy solutions for addressing these risks. Attributes of sound climate policy ExxonMobil believes the long-term objective of effective policy is to reduce the risks posed by climate change at minimum societal cost, in balance with other societal priorities such as poverty eradication, education, health, security and affordable energy. We fundamentally believe that free markets, innovation and technology are essential to addressing the risks of climate change. Success in developing and deploying impactful technologies will highly depend on governments creating a policy landscape that enables innovation and competition. Policies need to be clear and guard against duplicative, overlapping and conflicting regulations, which send mixed signals to the market and impose unnecessary costs on consumers. We believe that effective policies are those that: • Promote global participation; • Let market prices drive the selection of solutions; • Ensure a uniform and predictable cost of greenhouse gas emissions across the economy; • Minimize complexity and administrative costs; • Maximize transparency; and • Provide flexibility for future adjustments to react to developments in climate science and the economic impacts of climate policies. Policies based on these principles minimize overall costs to society and allow markets to help determine the most effective and commercially viable solutions. Given the wide range of societal priorities and limited global resources, all policies, including climate change policy, must be as economically efficient as possible. ExxonMobil believes that market-based systems that impose a uniform, economy-wide cost on greenhouse gas emissions are more economically efficient policy options than mandates or standards. This is because market-based policies more effectively drive consumer behavior and technology innovation, while mandates and standards eliminate consumer choice and can perpetuate ineffective technologies. Since 2009, ExxonMobil has held the view that a properly designed, revenue-neutral carbon tax is a more effective market-based option than a cap-and-trade approach. A carbon tax is more transparent, can be implemented in existing tax infrastructure, avoids the complexity of creating and regulating carbon markets where none exist and reduces greenhouse gas emissions price volatility, thus delivering a clearer, more consistent long-term market price signal. Only through a sound global policy framework will the power of markets and innovation enable society to find cost-effective solutions to address the risks of climate change, while at the same time continuing to address the many other challenges the world faces. Engaging stakeholders Managing the risks of climate change will require increased innovation and collaboration. Therefore, ExxonMobil engages a variety of stakeholders — including policymakers, investors, consumers, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), academics and the public — on climate change issues of direct relevance to the company. Up Close: Attributes of sound market-based policy While market-based systems may have different designs and regional applications, we believe effective systems are those that promote global participation and are characterized as follows: • Apply to all greenhouse gas emissions across the economy; • Provide a uniform price for all greenhouse gas emissions; • Apply the costs of greenhouse gas emissions to the parties most able and likely to alter behavior in response to a price signal; • Prevent shifting of greenhouse gas emissions to unregulated jurisdictions; • Provide for linkages with other market-based systems outside the regulated jurisdiction; • Return revenue generated from the system back to the economy in an equitable fashion that encourages economic growth and limits regressive income effects; and • Provide for accurate and cost-effective greenhouse gas emis.sions measurement, verification and reporting. Up Close: Outcomes from COP 21 In December 2015, parties to the United Nations (UN) Frame.work Convention on Climate Change convened in Paris for the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP 21). COP 21 resulted in a global agreement which, for the first time, commits all parties to undertake action on climate change and report on related progress. Key commitments of the agreement include: • “Each party shall prepare, communicate and maintain successive nationally determined contributions that it intends to achieve.” • “Each party shall communicate nationally determined contributions every five years.” • “Each party shall regularly provide … a national inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases” and “information necessary to track progress made in implementing and achieving its nationally determined contribution.” ExxonMobil actively advocates for responsible policies that would be effective in addressing the risks of climate change. When we encounter proposals, we offer informed data and policy analysis and engage in thoughtful debate. We have had hundreds of meetings with policymakers in the United States, the European Union and Canada to share our views on carbon pricing policy. We will continue to meet with policymakers and other stakeholders to discuss effective approaches to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s approach to political advocacy and contribu.tions, see page 86. Our chairman and members of the management committee have primary responsibility for — and are actively engaged in — managing climate change risks. The board of directors receives annual in-depth briefings that cover updates on public policy, scientific and technical research, and company positions and actions related to climate change. ExxonMobil believes that these commitments are a positive step in achieving global participation to address climate change risks. For many years, ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy has taken into account the potential for climate policies to become increasingly stringent over time and impose rising costs on energy-related carbon dioxide emissions. Preliminary analyses of the aggregation of intended nationally determined contributions, which were submitted by governments as part To drive improvement, our merit-driven employee development and compensation systems integrate performance in environmental areas, including emissions and energy efficiency. In order to ensure that our corporate communications accu.rately reflect our internal policy positions, we employ a corporate-wide global climate change and greenhouse gas issue management team. As issues arise at the local, state, national and regional levels, our global team of experts evaluate and develop a company position on the issue. ExxonMobil employees also hold key leadership positions, including board of director positions, with many trade associations that engage on climate change issues, including the American Petroleum Institute (API), the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. of the COP 21 process, indicate a greenhouse gas emissions trajectory similar to that anticipated in our Outlook. ExxonMobil continues to support and contribute to efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We believe the risks of climate change are real and warrant thoughtful action. Meeting the climate change challenge will require action from all parts of society, including governments, civil society and the private sector. We believe it is possible to address climate change risks while also meeting growing global energy demand and supporting economic development. We believe an effective policy response to climate change requires a thorough understanding of the climate system. Our scientists have been involved in climate change research and related policy analysis for more than 30 years. This has resulted in hundreds of publicly available documents on climate-related topics, including more than 50 peer-reviewed publications. While our long-standing and continuous involvement with climate science research, often conducted in collaboration with governmental bodies and leading universities, has advanced the company’s understanding of the climate system, ExxonMobil is committed to continued engagement with the climate science community in an effort to further develop the science. ExxonMobil contributes to a wide range of academic and other organizations that research and promote dialogue on addressing climate change risks. Peer-reviewed articles on climate research We engage with IPIECA on a number of issues, including climate change risks. Rick Mire, environment, regulatory and socioeconomic manager, has represented ExxonMobil at IPIECA for more than a decade and has served as chair since 2012. Experts from our organization have participated in the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) since its inception. Most recently, our scientists contributed to the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report in lead author, review editor and reviewer roles. For additional information on the IPCC’s Fifth Assessment Report, see the adjacent Up Close. Our scientists also participated in the work of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, including its work to review the third U.S. National Climate Assessment Report and provide advice to the U.S. Global Change Research Program. Engaging industry ExxonMobil recognizes the growing interest in climate change risks and understands that stakeholders seek a better under.standing of the positions of the oil and gas industry, as well as how individual companies approach the management of climate change risks within their own businesses. IPIECA was established in 1974 at the request of the United Nations Environmental Program. As an active IPIECA member, ExxonMobil engaged with member companies in advance of the December 2015 COP 21 meeting in Paris in order to help develop a common industry position on global efforts to address and mitigate climate change risks. That work culmi.nated in The Paris Puzzle — a publication on the challenges and responses needed to address the risks of climate change. IPIECA Paris Puzzle Recognizing the desire of stakeholders for more accessible and clear information, in 2015 we also took a key role collab.orating with IPIECA and its member companies to create a voluntary reporting framework for oil and gas companies to publish their climate change risk management approach in a simple, straightforward and transparent manner. The resulting framework, which IPIECA will pilot during 2016, covers a wide range of climate-related issues and provides a consis.tent reporting methodology for the oil and gas industry. This framework should enable interested stakeholders to under.stand an individual company’s views on the issues central to addressing climate change risks. IPIECA Climate Change Reporting Framework Up Close: ExxonMobil and the IPCC For more than 25 years, the IPCC has provided periodic assessments of climate change, including information on the causes and impacts as well as potential response strategies. Experts from ExxonMobil have participated in the IPCC since its inception. In October 2014, the IPCC completed its Fifth Assessment Report, which offers an update of materials related to climate science, including the socioeconomic aspects of climate change and its implications for sustainable development. Our scientists contributed to the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report in lead author, review editor and reviewer roles. The Fifth Assessment reports high confidence in the scientific certainty of many aspects of climate change, including that atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations are rising in response to emissions, the earth’s temperature has warmed over the last century and that the risks associated with climate change will increase with the magnitude of atmospheric greenhouse gas concentration and temperature increases. The assessment notes that the ability to forecast the magnitude and pattern of future climate change remains less certain and confidence declines when moving from a global to local scale. While the current scientific understanding of climate change leaves some unanswered questions, it is clear that the risks are real and warrant thoughtful action. ExxonMobil employs a risk management strategy and continually strives to improve our understanding of the impacts of climate change. As part of our Outlook for Energy analysis, we project an energy-related carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions profile through 2040. This can be compared with the energy-related CO2 emissions profiles from various scenarios outlined by the IPCC. When we do this, our Outlook emissions profile approximates the IPCC’s intermediate Representative Concentration Pathways 4.5 emissions profile in shape, but is slightly under it in magnitude. IPCC’s Fifth Assessment Report Developing future technology ExxonMobil’s approach to developing future technology As society transitions to lower greenhouse gas emission energy solutions, technological advancements that change the way we produce and use energy will be instrumental in providing the global economy with the energy it needs while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Recognizing the limitations associated with most existing low greenhouse gas emissions energy technologies, particularly in delivering the necessary economy and scale, we are conducting fundamental research to develop low greenhouse gas emission energy solutions that have the potential to be economically feasible without subsidies, standards or mandates. ExxonMobil is pioneering scientific research to discover innovative approaches to enhance existing and develop next-generation energy sources. ExxonMobil’s Emerging Technologies program brings together executives, scientists and engineers from across ExxonMobil’s businesses to identify and evaluate technology research opportunities with a long-term strategic focus. The Emerging Technologies team seeks to understand a wide range of technology options and how they may impact the global energy system in the near term and as far as 50 years into the future. Our evaluation extends well beyond our base business and near-term focus. If a technology could have a material effect on the future of energy, we insist on knowing about it and understanding the related science. Understanding the fundamental science serves as a basis for our broader research efforts and may lead to further technology development aimed at practical application, such as our work on biofuels. Additionally, this awareness informs our internal analysis of the global energy landscape as reflected and encapsulated in our annual Outlook for Energy. The Outlook for Energy: A View to 2040 At the center of our research is ExxonMobil’s Corporate Strategic Research laboratory, a fundamental research institution with approximately 150 Ph.D. scientists and engineers focused on addressing the company’s long-range science needs. The laboratory’s scientists are internationally recognized experts in their field. Our research portfolio, as illustrated in the graphic above, includes a broad array of programs, including biofuels, carbon capture and sequestration, alternative energy and climate science. “ExxonMobil is a leader in its commitment to fundamental science and has a constancy of purpose when looking at emerging energy technologies. As part of our commitment, we continue to widen our research aperture through collaborations with academics and other third parties to better enable us to identify potential breakthroughs in lower-emission technologies.” Vijay Swarup Vice president, research and development In addition to in-house research, the Corporate Strategic Research laboratory conducts strategic research with leading universities around the world. For example, in 2014, ExxonMobil signed an agreement to join the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Energy Initiative, a collaboration aimed at working to advance and explore the future of energy. ExxonMobil was also a founding member of the Global Climate and Energy Project at Stanford University, which seeks to develop fundamental, game-changing scientific breakthroughs that could lead to lower greenhouse gas emissions and a less carbon-intensive global energy system. Other university collaborations cover a wide range of scientific topics, from understanding the impacts of black carbon and aerosols at the University of California, Riverside to the fundamentals of biomass pyrolysis used to make biofuels at Iowa State University. Advanced biofuels ExxonMobil funds a broad portfolio of biofuels research programs including ongoing efforts to develop algae-based biofuels, as well as programs for converting non-food based feedstocks, such as whole cellulosic biomass, algae-based feedstocks and cellulose-derived sugars, into advanced biofuels. We believe that additional fundamental technology improvements and scientific breakthroughs are still necessary in both biomass optimization and the processing of biomass into fuels. Specifically, scientific breakthroughs are needed to ensure that advanced biofuels can be scaled up economically and produced with the desired environmental benefit of lower life cycle greenhouse gas emissions. Up Close: Advanced biofuels partnership with Michigan State University ExxonMobil is a leader in funding and conducting research on advanced biofuels. In 2015, ExxonMobil and Michigan State University (MSU) launched a partnership to advance biofuel research by developing the basic science required to progress algae-based fuels and bio-products. Research has shown that algae photosynthesis can be highly efficient under optimal conditions in the laboratory but that this efficiency drops under realistic growth conditions. The partnership seeks to understand why some strains of algae are more efficient than others by using advanced technologies to study the photosynthetic processes of many cultures under different conditions. The objective is to eventually process algae bio-oils in ExxonMobil refineries to supplement crude oil as the raw material to manufacture gasoline, diesel, aviation fuels and marine fuels. We are also researching potential applications for chemicals and lubricants. Algae biofuel research and development is a long-term endeavor that could take decades to commercialize at scale. In this partnership, we are working to build on our significant progress since beginning this work in 2009. “Nature has provided us with a great potential for improvement, and there are many strains of algae that have adapted to work in different environments. We want to determine how they do this and which genes are responsible. Then, we can potentially combine traits to make strains that are more efficient under harsh conditions.” David Kramer Photosynthesis and bioenergetics professor, MSU-Department of Energy Plant and Research Laboratory Our advanced biofuels research includes joint research collaborations with Synthetic Genomics Inc., Renewable Energy Group, the Colorado School of Mines, Michigan State University, Iowa State University, Northwestern University and the University of Wisconsin. For additional information on biofuel initiatives in 2015, see the adjacent Up Close. Energy investment in advanced biofuels Carbon capture and sequestration Carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) is the process by which CO2 gas that would otherwise be released into the atmosphere is captured, compressed and injected into under.ground geologic formations for permanent storage. With a working interest in approximately one-third of the world’s total CCS capacity, ExxonMobil is a leader in one of the most important next-generation low-carbon technologies. In 2015, we captured 6.9 million metric tons of CO2 for sequestration. ExxonMobil believes the greatest opportunity for future large-scale deployment of CCS will be in the natural gas-fired power generation sector. While CCS technology can be applied to coal-fired power generation, the cost to capture CO2 is about twice that of natural gas power generation. In addition, because coal-fired power generation creates about twice as much CO2 per unit of electricity generated, the geological storage space required to sequester the CO2 produced from coal-fired generation is about twice that associated with gas-fired generation. ExxonMobil is conducting proprietary, fundamental research to develop breakthrough carbon capture technologies that have the potential to be economically feasible without government subsidies, standards or mandates. Environmental life cycle assessments Every product has the potential to impact the environment. These impacts can be associated with use of the product itself, the manufacturing process or the acquisition of raw materials used to make the product. As a result, a holistic estimate of a product’s environmental impact should reflect its entire life cycle. Our LaBarge gas plant in Wyoming contributes to the total carbon dioxide ExxonMobil captures for sequestration each year. To help direct our research efforts, we use in-house experts and tools to conduct environmental life cycle assessments of emerging products and activities. In doing so, we are able to assess which technologies have the potential to deliver the game-changing results that will be needed to transition the energy system to lower-emissions solutions. ExxonMobil researchers also collaborate with researchers at national laboratories and universities around the globe to advance the science of life cycle assessments. In recent years, we have developed new approaches for quantifying environmental impacts associated with energy systems, and published our findings in prestigious peer-reviewed journals. Peer-review and collaboration with external scientists enhance dialogue with the academic research community and bring external expertise and perspective to ExxonMobil life cycle assessments, supporting sound science both within the company and in the greater scientific community. Mitigating greenhouse gas emissions in our operations As we seek to increase production of oil and natural gas to meet growing global energy demand, we are committed to continuing to take actions to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions within our operations. ExxonMobil has a robust set of processes designed to improve efficiency, reduce emissions and contribute to effective long-term solutions to manage climate change risks. These processes include, where appropriate, setting tailored objectives at the business, site and equipment levels, and then Greenhouse gas emissions (net)1 Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions Millions of metric tons 2006  139  2007  135  2008  126  2009  123  2010  126  2011  128  2012  126  2013  127  2014  123  2015  122  Upstream  Downstream  Chemical  In 2015, ExxonMobil’s net equity greenhouse gas emissions were 122 million CO2-equivalent metric tons. Relative to our 2014 performance, our 2015 emissions decreased by approximately 1 million CO2-equivalent metric tons. 1Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in API’s Compendium of  Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry and IPIECA’s Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse   Gas Emissions. stewarding progress toward meeting those objectives. Based on decades of experience, ExxonMobil believes this rigorous bottom-up approach is a more effective and meaningful way to drive efficiency improvement and greenhouse gas emissions reduction than simply setting high-level corporate targets. We also believe that continuing to use this approach will yield further improvements in all sectors of our business. In the near term, we are working to increase energy efficiency while reducing flaring, venting and fugitive emissions in our operations. In the medium term, we are deploying proven technologies such as cogeneration and carbon capture and sequestration where technically and economically feasible. Longer term, we are conducting and supporting research to Greenhouse gas emissions (normalized) Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions                                                 Metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Upstream Downstream Chemical Through our commitment to energy efficiency, application of structured processes and continued use of a bottom-up approach, we continue to yield industry-leading results. For example, normalized greenhouse gas emissions from our Downstream business totaled 18.9 metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production in 2015. This represents an improvement of 13 percent compared with our 2006 performance. develop breakthrough, game-changing technologies. Since 2000, ExxonMobil has spent approximately $7 billion to develop lower-emission energy solutions. In 2015, ExxonMobil’s net equity greenhouse gas emissions were 122 million CO2-equivalent metric tons. Relative to our 2014 performance, our 2015 emissions decreased by approximately 1 million CO2-equivalent metric tons. This decrease was primarily driven by energy efficiency improvement and asset divestment. 2015 CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) response Greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions2 Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions Millions of metric tons 2006  2.3  2007  4.5  2008  6.9  2009  9.1  2010  11.8  2011  13.6  2012  15.5  2013  17.9  2014  19.7  2015  20.5  Energy efficiency and cogeneration  Flare/vent reduction  In 2015, greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions were 20.5 million metric tons, cumulative since 2006. This represents an additional reduction of 0.8 million metric tons compared with our 2014 performance. 2Cumulative since 2006. Emissions reduction >$400 Million >$3.8 Billion invested over the past invested since 2000 at our Upstream facilities 15 years at our refining around the world on facilities around the world to reduce greenhouse emission reduction efforts, gas emissionsincluding energy efficiency and flare mitigation >$2 Billion in support of Upstream and Downstream cogeneration facilities since 2001 to more efficiently produce electricity and reduce greenhouse gas emissions >$200 Million in capital expenditures at global Chemical facilities since 2004 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Energy efficiency In 2015, energy used in our operations totaled 1.7 billion gigajoules. Energy consumed in our operations generates more than 80 percent of our direct greenhouse gas emissions and is one of our largest operating costs. As such, we have focused on energy efficiency for several decades. Since 2000, we have used our Global Energy Management System in the Downstream and Chemical businesses, and our Production Operations Energy Management System in our Upstream businesses to identify and act on energy savings opportunities. Through our commitment to energy efficiency, application of structured processes and continued use of a bottom-up approach, we continue to yield industry-leading results. For example, in the 2010, 2012 and 2014 Refining Industry Surveys,3 ExxonMobil’s global refining operations achieved first quartile energy efficiency performance. Flaring In 2015, flaring volume from our combined Upstream, Downstream and Chemical operations totaled 5.3 million metric tons. This represents an increase of 0.8 million metric tons compared with our 2014 performance. The increase in flaring in 2015 was primarily due to operations in Angola, where a third-party-operated liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant was not operating. These increases were partially offset by flaring reductions resulting from the completion of commissioning work at our Papua New Guinea LNG plant and operational improvements at the Usan production field in Nigeria. ExxonMobil is a charter member of the Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership. In addition, we put in place our own parameters, the Upstream Flaring and Venting Reduction Environmental Standard for Projects, in 2005. Accordingly, our goal is to responsibly avoid routine flaring in new Upstream projects and reduce “legacy” flaring in our existing operations. Hydrocarbon flaring Millions of metric tons 2006 2007 2008 5.7 2009  4.4  2010  3.6  2011  4.1  2012  3.6  2013  3.7  2014  4.5  2015  5.3  Upstream  Downstream  Chemical  In 2015, flaring volume from our combined Upstream, Downstream and Chemical operations totaled 5.3 million metric tons. This represents an increase of 0.8 million metric tons compared with our 2014 performance. For example, our joint venture operations in Qatar have recently begun using a jetty boil-off gas (JBOG) recovery facility to recover the natural gas that was previously flared during LNG vessel loading at the marine berths located at the Ras Laffan Port. Approximately 1 percent of the LNG loaded onto the ships evaporates due to the difference in temperature between the LNG and the ship tank. The JBOG recovery facility collects the boil-off gas and returns it to the LNG plants to be used as fuel or converted back into LNG. During one year of operation, the JBOG facility has recovered more than 500,000 metric tons of gas and reduced LNG vessel loading-related flaring by around 90 percent. 3The Solomon Survey provides a global benchmarking assessment of the refining industry and is conducted every two years. Paula Byrum inspects equipment at our XTO Energy operations site near Herbert Springs, Arkansas. Up Close: Mitigating methane emissions at XTO Energy XTO Energy manages methane emissions as a matter of safety and environmental responsibility. Responsible methane containment practices are applied during drilling, completion and production operations to minimize methane emissions. We manage emissions through a mix of voluntary and regulatory actions, such as implementing leak detection and repair programs, reducing oil and gas completion emis.sions and targeting replacement of high-bleed pneumatics with lower-emitting devices. After drilling and completion of a new well, our workers prepare the production equipment for decades of operation. A key part of these preparations is to ensure that the natural gas product is contained by the production equipment. We utilize optical gas imaging cameras to locate equipment leaks that would otherwise be invisible, which allows us to detect leaks and make repairs. This attention to detail is important to promote safety and environmental performance. There is a growing interest within the scientific and policy communities on human-related methane emissions. In the United States, we are working with federal and state governments and within industry to ensure that regulations aimed at reducing emissions of methane and volatile organic compounds sufficiently support long-term operations, achieve emission reduction objectives and provide flexibility for technology. We continue to seek greater understanding of the magnitude and characteristics of oil and gas industry-related methane emissions. XTO Energy participated in studies conducted by the University of Texas and Environmental Defense Fund which quantified the methane leakage rate in the United States from Upstream gas production activities at 0.4 percent of the total gas produced. The results of this study helped validate Environmental Protection Agency estimates. We are active in ongoing methane research including participating in a methane measurement reconciliation study with the Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory to close the knowledge gap between methane measured at ground sources and methane measured from the air. We are also working with Stanford University on its new Natural Gas Initiative, which will focus on methane measurement and monitoring technologies. Venting and fugitive emissions Our venting and fugitive emissions in 2015 totaled 6 million CO2-equivalent metric tons, which is essentially flat relative to our 2014 performance. While venting and fugitive emissions, most of which are methane, represent approximately 5 percent of our direct greenhouse gas emissions, we recognize the importance of reducing these emissions. We continue to look for cost-effective ways to reduce methane and other hydrocarbon emissions in our operations, such as replacing high-bleed pneumatic devices with lower-emission technology and conducting green well completions in targeted Upstream operations. For more information on how XTO Energy manages methane emissions, see the adjacent Up Close. Cogeneration Cogeneration technology captures heat generated from the production of electricity for use in production, refining and chemical processing operations. Due to its inherent energy efficiency, the use of cogeneration leads to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Our cogeneration facilities alone enable the avoidance of approximately 6 million metric tons per year of greenhouse gas emissions. We have interests in approximately 5,500 megawatts of cogeneration capacity in more than 100 installations at more than 30 locations around the world. This capacity is equivalent to the annual energy needed to power 2.5 million U.S. homes. Over the past decade, we have added more than 1,000 megawatts of cogeneration capacity and continue to develop additional investment opportunities. For example, ExxonMobil began the construction of a new 84-megawatt cogeneration facility at our Singapore refinery’s Jurong site. When this facility is completed in 2017, ExxonMobil will have more than 440 megawatts of cogeneration capacity in Singapore, enabling our integrated refining and petrochemical complex to meet all its power needs. The Kizomba B platform located offshore Angola. Up Close: Managing the business risks of climate change By 2040, the world’s population is projected to reach 9 billion — up from about 7.2 billion today — and global GDP will have more than doubled. As a result, we see global energy demand rising by about 25 percent from 2014 to 2040. In order to meet this demand, we believe all economic energy sources, including our existing hydrocarbon reserves, will be needed. We also believe that the transition of the global energy system to lower-emissions sources will take many decades due to its enormous scale, capital intensity and complexity. As such, we believe that none of our proven hydrocarbon reserves are, or will become, stranded. Energy and carbon — managing the risks ExxonMobil’s long-range annual forecast, The Outlook for Energy, examines energy supply and demand trends for approximately 100 countries, 15 demand sectors and 20 different energy types. The Outlook forms the foundation for the company’s business strategies and helps guide our investment decisions. In response to projected increases in global fuel and electricity demand, our 2016 Outlook estimates that global energy-related CO2 emissions will peak around 2030 and then begin to decline. A host of trends contribute to this downturn — including slowing population growth, maturing economies and a shift to cleaner fuels like natural gas and renewables — some voluntary and some the result of policy. ExxonMobil addresses the potential for future climate change policy, including the potential for restrictions on emissions, by estimating a proxy cost of carbon. This cost, which in some geographies may approach $80 per ton by 2040, has been included in our Outlook for several years. This approach seeks to reflect potential policies governments may employ related to the exploration, development, production, transportation or use of carbon-based fuels. We believe our view on the Energy-related CO2 emissions Billion metric tons 40 Rest of world 30 Key growth India20 China 10 OECD324 0 1990 2015  2040 4The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Refer to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development website (oecd.org) for a listing of its members. potential for future policy action is realistic and by no means represents a “business-as-usual” case. We require all of our business lines to include, where appropriate, an estimate of greenhouse gas-related emissions costs in their economics when seeking funding for capital investments. We evaluate potential investments and projects using a wide range of economic conditions and commodity prices. We apply prudent and substantial margins in our planning assumptions to help ensure competitive returns over a wide range of market conditions. We also financially stress test our investment opportunities, which provides an added margin against uncertainties, such as those related to technology development, costs, geopolitics, availability of required materials, services and labor. Stress testing further enables us to consider a wide range of market environments in our planning and investment process. Developing solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions for customers Over the next few decades, population and income growth — and an unprecedented expansion of the global middle class — are expected to create new demands for energy. Meeting these demands will not just require more energy, but will also require energy to be used more efficiently across all sectors. While ExxonMobil strives to improve efficiency throughout our own operations, we are also delivering solutions that enable our customers to reduce their own emissions and improve their own energy efficiency as well as increase reliability, performance and longevity of the associated products. These solutions can be characterized as: • Expanding the supply of cleaner-burning natural gas to reduce emissions in power generation; • Developing premium, high-efficiency fuels and lubricants; and • Creating innovative chemical materials that can be applied in a range of consumer products. Cleaner-burning natural gas One of the greatest opportunities for society to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is through the use of natural gas in power generation. Natural gas is a flexible, abundant and low-emissions fuel that is available across the globe. On a life cycle basis, from extraction through electricity consumption, using natural gas emits up to 60 percent fewer greenhouse gas emissions than coal. It is also the ideal partner for intermittent renewable energy sources, such as solar or wind, as it can provide reliable power when these renewable sources are not available. As the world moves toward a lower greenhouse gas emissions-intensive energy mix over the coming decades, natural gas will be one of the most important fuels to enable reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. In 2015, the Center for Liquefied Natural Gas released a technical study that compares the differences between life cycle greenhouse gas emissions from power generation fueled by U.S.-exported LNG versus that of coal in Germany, Japan, South Korea, China and India. The study analyzed emissions during each stage of the LNG life cycle process — from wellhead to power generation — and found that life cycle greenhouse gas emissions from coal were about twice as high as emissions from U.S.-produced LNG in these markets, which demonstrates the long-term potential benefits of LNG use in these markets. LNG and coal life cycle assessment of greenhouse gas emissions Since our merger with XTO Energy in 2010, ExxonMobil has become one of the largest natural gas producers in the world. Coupled with our leadership in the development and production of LNG, ExxonMobil is well-positioned to meet growing demand for this cleaner-burning energy source. Advances in technology have made it economically viable to ship natural gas all over the world, making it a truly global resource. By converting natural gas into LNG, it can be delivered via tanker from distant production areas to intended markets. Given its flexibility, environmental benefits and large resource base, LNG is a natural choice to help meet the world’s growing energy needs. ExxonMobil’s experience spans across the entire LNG value chain, including Upstream development, pipelines, liquefaction plants, shipping and regasification terminals. Our ability to successfully link these complex elements distinguishes us from our competitors and enables us to provide a reliable gas supply to buyers and end users. Premium fuels and lubricants ExxonMobil produces fuels and lubricants that deliver higher vehicle efficiency and lower emissions. In addition, we continue working on research and development of new fuels and lubricants. Our extensive family of high-performance lubricants includes synthetic lubricants that have sustainable customer benefits, such as longer drain intervals than conventional mineral oils, meaning they can be replaced with less frequency, therefore reducing the volume of used oil for disposal or recycle. In addition, extending lubrication service intervals increases efficiency and lowers maintenance costs while reducing potential risks from worker and machine interactions. There are also specific application advantages for these products, including in wind turbine applications where machinery is several hundreds of feet in the air and exposed to weather. Mobil lubricants are used in more than 40,000 wind turbines worldwide. Innovative chemical materials Materials developed by ExxonMobil provide manufacturers with quantifiable benefits in a multitude of consumer appli.cations. These materials include resilient, lightweight plastics that are used by automotive manufacturers to reduce vehicle weight and deliver greater efficiency for drivers. We have also developed advanced tire technologies that help maintain optimal tire pressure, improve rolling resistance and aid fuel efficiency, as around 25 percent of vehicle tires in the United States are underinflated. By addressing this issue, drivers could collectively save up to 1 billion gallons of gasoline per year. Additionally, our next-generation plastic packaging reduces total product weight and allows more products per shipment, fewer trucks on the road, less gasoline and energy used, fewer greenhouse gas emissions and ultimately less material to be Solutions in the automotive industry reused, recovered or recycled. ExxonMobil plastic products also contribute to safety within the food industry. Plastic pack.aging is lightweight, durable and flexible, which makes it ideal for preserving food. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, one-third of the food produced in the world goes to waste each year. Plastic pack.aging can help reduce spoilage, increase access to food and improve food safety for consumers around the world. Halobutyl and EPDM rubbers are used to make automotive products, such as tire innerliners, window and door seals, fan belts and radiator hoses. Under hood Chassis Sealing Exterior Electrical Fuel systems Tires Thermoplastic vulcanizates Synthetic rubber (EPDM) Plasticizer Polyethylene Adhesives Ethylene glycol Polypropylene Synthetic fluids and lubricant basestocks Synthetic rubber (butyl) Up Close: Engineering resiliency into our operations ExxonMobil operates facilities in a wide range of challenging physical environments across the globe, and has done so for many decades. Our extensive design, construction and operating experience provides us great familiarity with the risks associated with different physical environments. The company is aware of the risks posed by extreme weather events and recognizes the risks that climate change could potentially introduce for facilities exposed to changes in extreme weather events over the life of an investment. When considering weather-related risks, we evaluate the type and location of our current and planned facilities. As an example, offshore facilities could be impacted by changes in wave and wind intensity as well as by ice flow patterns, while onshore facilities could be vulnerable to sea level rise and changes in storm surge. In the Arctic, long-term changes in ice and permafrost could impact the design of structural foundations. Our facilities are designed, constructed and operated to withstand a variety of extreme climatic and other conditions, with safety factors built in to cover a number of engineering uncertainties, including those associated with wave, wind and current intensity, marine ice flow patterns, permafrost stability, storm surge magnitude, temperature extremes, extreme rain.fall events and earthquakes. Our consideration of changing weather conditions and inclusion of safety factors in design cover the engineering uncertainties that climate change and other events may potentially introduce. After construction of a facility, we monitor and manage ongoing facility integrity, for example through periodic checks on key aspects of the structures. In addition, we regularly participate with major engineering societies and industry groups to assess and update engineering standards to manage the risks of extreme weather. Once facilities are in operation, the risks of extreme weather are also addressed by disaster preparedness and response and business continuity planning. Detailed, well-practiced and continuously improved emergency response plans tailored to each facility help ExxonMobil prepare for extreme weather events. Regular emergency drills are practiced in partnership with appropriate government agencies to help ensure readiness and minimize the impacts of such events. While most scientists agree climate change could pose risks related to extreme weather, sea level rise, temperature extremes and precipitation changes, the limited scientific understanding of the likelihood, magnitude, frequency and geographic distribution of these events poses a challenge in facility planning. ExxonMobil’s comprehensive approach and established systems enable us to manage a wide variety of possible outcomes over the coming decades. Case Study ExxonMobil’s research and development initiatives Upstream researchers in our hydrocarbon systems analytical geochemistry laboratory perform gas chromatography and mass spectrometry measurements on hydro carbon samples. We seek to develop break through technologies that can benefit our business and have a positive impact on society. We believe human ingenuity and innovation are critical to supplying the fuels and products that consumers need in a manner that is safe for our employees, communities and the environment. To support this, ExxonMobil is founded on a culture of science and technology. We employ more than 2,200 Ph.D. scientists and 5,000 employees at our research and technology divisions around the world. Each year, we invest around $1 billion on corporate research and development efforts. Our goal is to develop breakthrough technologies that can benefit our business and have a positive impact on society and the environment. We are also collaborating with leading universities to research and discover next-generation energy solutions. We are proud ExxonMobil employees Steve Derenthal and Michael Deal visit the Houston-based center that houses ExxonMobil’s high-performance computing system. to say that as a result of these and other such research and development initiatives, ExxonMobil was named one of the “Top Global 100 Innovators” by Thomson Reuters in 2015 for our leadership performance in overall patent volume, patent-grant success rates, global reach and invention influence. Our scientists and engineers are presently working to develop technologies designed to produce energy in an increasingly safe, economical and environmentally responsible manner. Two examples are full wavefield inversion and advanced drilling technologies, both of which are enabled by high-performance computing. A supercomputer is a high-performance computer that executes at or near the current maximum operational rate for computers. Supercomputers play an important role in the field of computational science and are used in various fields, including quantum mechanics, climate research and oil and gas exploration. ExxonMobil uses high-performance computing to find and develop the most challenging resource opportunities in the world. With advanced algorithms and high-performance computing, we are able to process extremely large volumes of data from multiple sources to identify key trends and relationships to determine which decisions will yield the most positive out.come. By leveraging our computational sciences expertise to combine software, engineering and geoscience skills, we are able to deliver the advanced technical capabilities needed to execute technical computations on an unprecedented scale to analyze models, perform simulations and assess opportunities. Full wavefield inversion Full wavefield inversion (FWI), a key component of ExxonMobil’s EMprise seismic capability, uses supercomputing technology to provide geoscientists unparalleled insights into the physical characteristics of rocks and geologic structures in the subsurface. In the past, the oil and gas industry could only utilize a portion of the sound wave data in 3-D seismic processing technology because processing techniques could not handle the complexity and quantity of data. FWI enables us to better leverage data from a seismic survey to produce high-definition images of the subsurface that could make development and production more efficient and less costly. In doing so, we can help make oil and gas resources easier to identify and target in exploration, development and production programs, which ultimately helps us reduce our impact on the environment. Specifically, FWI enables us to evaluate data with more certainty — and in a time frame that is practical for business applications — whether or not the rock that is surveyed has potential to contain hydrocarbons. Full wavefield inversion technology animation Researchers at our Upstream Research Company analyze seismic data that was imaged using full wavefield inversion. Advanced drilling Advances in technologies used for well drilling and completion have enabled the energy industry to reach new sources of oil and natural gas to meet rising demand around the world. Recent innovations in advanced drilling technology, such as ExxonMobil’s proprietary Vybs software, are helping bring about new efficiencies and environmental benefits. Vybs is the latest breakthrough technology used to overcome factors that limit drilling efficiency. In an effort to improve efficiency, Vybs uses sophisticated algorithms to understand and harness the vibrations at the end of a drill string. Vybs uses kinetic energy from the drill string, thus reducing the amount of energy needed from the rig to penetrate the subsurface. Improving drilling efficiency means wells can be drilled faster, which reduces costs and the amount of time spent with a drill rig on location. In addition to helping reduce the costs associated with drilling, this technology also helps reduce the environmental impact of energy production and safeguard our employees and contractors by allowing more oil and gas to be produced with fewer wells and by reducing our well pad size. Partnerships with leading universities ExxonMobil is partnering with approximately 80 universities around the world to explore next-generation energy technologies. We recently began collaborations with Princeton University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as part of our commitment to finding meaningful and scalable solutions to meet global energy demand. In October 2014, ExxonMobil became a founding member of the MIT Energy Initiative, a unique collaboration that aims to advance and explore the future of energy by focusing on new energy sources and more efficient uses of conventional energy resources. Since launching the collaboration with MIT, the joint research program has made inroads into several areas, including bio-inspired catalysts for the petrochemical industry and computational modeling to better understand the properties of iron and iron-based alloys used in pipelines. The program has also enabled ExxonMobil to expand research efforts to emerging areas like photovoltaic and nuclear power, as well as enhance our understanding of energy options and the interactions between them. In 2015, ExxonMobil entered a five-year partnership with E-ffiliates, a program administered by Princeton University, to pursue transformational innovations in the fields of energy and environment. E-ffiliates has already started working with research groups across the university, including selected graduate students and post-doctoral researchers. The partnership will help accelerate research by creating an umbrella framework that makes it easy for any business unit of Exxon Mobil Corporation to undertake research projects with any department or lab at Princeton. “Meeting the world’s energy needs in a sustainable way is a formidable challenge. Developing economically viable solutions requires the collaborative efforts of industry, gov.ernment and academia. We are delighted that ExxonMobil is joining E-ffiliates, broadening the vibrant collaboration between Princeton and leading industry partners in the energy and environmental sectors.” Pablo Debenedetti Dean of research, Princeton University 