Environmental performance XTO Energy drilling operations in Belmont County, Ohio. ExxonMobil employs structured management processes across an asset s life cycle to ensure we effectively identify and understand the actual and potential impacts of our activities. ExxonMobil is committed to operating in an environmentally responsible manner while providing the energy needed to power the world’s progress. ExxonMobil’s Corporate Envi.ronment Policy and Protect Tomorrow. Today. expectations serve as the foundation of our efforts, which are guided by a scientific understanding of the environmental impact of our operations as well as the social and economic needs of the communities in which we operate. Environmental management Protect Tomorrow. Today. is a set of corporate-wide environ.mental performance expectations. These expectations build upon the existing Corporate Environment Policy, which is incorporated in ExxonMobil’s Standards of Business Conduct, and based on the following principles: • Delivery of superior environmental performance, leading to a competitive advantage; • Driving environmental incidents with real impact to zero, through a process of continuous improvement; and • Achieving industry leadership in focus areas valuable to the business. Standards of Business Conduct For more than 10 years, Protect Tomorrow. Today. has guided us toward our goal of superior environmental performance. Our employees demonstrate their dedication to this goal every day by helping the organization achieve environmental leadership, caring about the communities where we work and sharing our lessons learned with industry and our stakeholders for the benefit of all. As we manage our operations, we must understand the impact of our business on the environment, adhere to a consistent risk management approach and maintain a relentless focus on operational excellence. Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) drives our approach to environmental management. OIMS defines a set of expectations that align our environmental objectives with our business activities and provides a framework to identify and manage environmental risks. For additional information on how OIMS guides ExxonMobil’s approach to environmental management, see page 15. ExxonMobil’s projects and operations are set in a diverse range of environments that present a variety of environmental, social and health risks and opportunities. We employ struc.tured management processes across an asset’s life cycle to ensure we effectively identify and understand the actual and potential impacts of our activities. Our Environmental Aspects Assessment (EAA) process allows us to systematically identify, assess, manage and monitor environmental and social risks throughout the life cycle of our assets. Environmental Business Planning is undertaken to plan, oversee and steward environmental performance. New developments are typically subject to an Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process. Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Management Plans (ESHMP) are then prepared to “operationalize” ESHIAs by defining the set of measures that will be employed during development and operations to avoid environmental and social risks, reduce them to acceptable levels or remedy the impact. We integrate stakeholder feedback, scientific understanding and other due diligence into these processes to ensure we operate in a safe, respectful and environmentally protective manner. ExxonMobil has undertaken or participated in ESHIAs or EAAs for a wide variety of projects and activities around the world, including projects ranging from single-well exploration drilling programs to new technology evaluation pilots and large devel.opment mega-projects. Biodiversity and ecosystem services As part of the expectations of Protect Tomorrow. Today., ExxonMobil strives to be a leader in safeguarding the ability of the environment to provide ecosystem services — the direct and indirect benefits people obtain from the environment, such as food, water, shelter, clean air and cultural identity. Our approach to managing biodiversity and ecosystem services recognizes factors such as the rarity of individual species, their roles in different ecosystems and habitats, their vulnerabilities and their cultural significance. For our major projects, biodiversity and ecosystem services are taken into account during our environmental risk management processes. Environmental Aspects Guide Western gray whale off the coast of Sakhalin Island, Russia. Up Close: Protecting the biodiversity of Bioko Island Bioko Island, located 20 miles off the Gulf of Guinea coast in West Africa, is one of the most biologically diverse places on earth, with critical habitat for seven species of endangered monkeys and four species of nesting sea turtles. For nearly 20 years, the ExxonMobil Foundation has supported the Bioko Island Biodiversity Protection Program (BBPP) in Equatorial Guinea, in association with Drexel University and the National University of Equatorial Guinea, to conserve the island’s biodi.versity through educational and research programs as well as  conservation activities. Since 2008, the ExxonMobil Foundation has provided core funding for the Moka Wildlife Center, the country’s first and only biological field station. Here, BBPP hosts educational programs designed to illustrate the value of biodiversity and to foster an environmental ethic in local children. To build upon this initiative, we sponsored the construction of an interpretative nature trail in 2015. Protecting biodiversity We plan our activities based on a scientific understanding of the biodiversity in our areas of operation. As part of our commitment to operating in an environmentally responsible manner, we conduct research and support initiatives to help improve biodiversity management. In 2015, we contributed approximately $4 million to organizations focused on biodiversity protection and land conservation. For many years, we have sponsored research efforts to study the effects of sound on marine mammals to avoid potentially adverse impacts of our operations. In 2015, Exxon Neftegas Limited, an ExxonMobil subsidiary in Russia, conducted a seismic program covering all three Sakhalin-1 offshore license areas. Throughout the design and implementation of the program, being protective of the western gray whale — a species classified as critically endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) — was very important. Our detailed monitoring and mitigation strategy The trail runs adjacent to the BBPP Moka Wildlife Center and allows visitors to observe the local fauna and flora up close. The trail is also marked with signs that display various facts about the biodiversity in the area. In addition to providing information on the various plants and animals, the signs explain their use or impor.tance to the local community. Local children in Moka and other nearby villages can visit the center, walk the trail and learn more about the importance of preserving the biodiversity of Bioko Island. “The ExxonMobil-BBPP relationship is an internationally recognized model of successful corporate, government and international education cooperative activities. This two-decade relationship built a solid foundation for saving the biodiversity of Bioko Island, for providing sustainable livelihoods for Equatoguineans who depend on the nation’s rich natural resources for survival and for improving the international profile of Equatorial Guinea.” Dr. Mary Katherine Gonder Director, Bioko Biodiversity Protection Program Protecting the biodiversity in Equatorial Guinea was based on 17 years of research on these animals and their habitat and the best practices developed and enhanced during previous seismic operations, as well as knowledge of the timing and behaviors of whales in the area. We also support research aimed at improving our management of biodiversity. For example, ExxonMobil’s Upstream Research Company is investigating the application of environmental genomics in biodiversity assessment and monitoring. Advances in DNA technologies have enabled the rapid characterization of the biodiversity of environmental samples. This has the potential to improve our ability to manage environmental risks by significantly reducing the time required for environmental surveys and analyses compared with conventional methods. Working in protected areas ExxonMobil manages elevated biodiversity or species risks by examining the environmental context of the areas where we operate and ensuring adequate protective measures are Local children reading a book series developed by BBPP learn about the importance of biodiversity in their lives and for their nation. developed and implemented. We periodically screen the locations of our major operating facilities against databases of the IUCN and World Protected Areas. In 2015, an estimated 25 percent of our major operating facilities were within 5 kilometers of designated environmentally sensitive areas. These data inform our emergency response contingency plans and environmental impact surveys by helping prioritize areas needing special protection. We continue to collaborate with the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) to develop educational and outreach programs through the Corporate Lands for Learning (CLL) program. Currently, we have five CLL programs certified at or near our facilities, including the Billings (Montana) refinery, the Baton Rouge (Louisiana) complex, our Clinton (New Jersey) research facility, the Fife (United Kingdom) ethylene plant and Lentol Garden in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, New York. These programs help us promote environmental awareness, biodiversity and science initiatives in our workforce and local communities. In 2010, the Cold Lake operations of our Canadian affiliate, Imperial Oil, became the first oil and gas operator in Canada to be certified by the WHC. This site was re-certified in 2015, demonstrating our continued commitment to conservation excellence. By the end of 2015, we actively managed approximately 7,100 acres of land for the benefit of wildlife, which includes assessing habitats, developing plans to enhance or sustain wildlife, implementing the plans and monitoring the status at 16 of our sites through 18 certified programs. Over the past year, there has been a reduction in the number of wildlife habitat programs and acreage certified through WHC. This change reflects the consolidation of sites to our Houston campus and the sale or disposition of previously owned sites. It is our hope that the new owners will continue management of the properties for wildlife habitat valuable to those commu.nities. During the site consolidation process, our employees turned their efforts toward certification of the Houston campus property, achieved in 2014, and continue to seek opportunities at other locations for enhancing wildlife habitat and providing environmental education to local communities. Rocky Mountain College wildlife biology students and members of the Billings Senior High School STEM Society engage in habitat research at ExxonMobil’s Billings refinery s wildlife habitat area in Montana. One of the recent highlights related to our long-term association with WHC is at our Billings refinery. The 110-acre WHC-certified wildlife habitat at our Billings refinery has served as a learning lab since 2002 for Rocky Mountain College and, starting in 2015, Billings Senior High School. The refinery’s conservation efforts have earned international recognition by the WHC and the habitat program has received WHC certification for a decade. In 2015, the site achieved WHC CLL certification, allowing the refinery to more fully use the habitat area for education purposes, especially field research. The students from Rocky Mountain College and Billings Senior High School are making good use of the opportunity and have recently collaborated to install nets for a fishery and turtle survey in an effort to enhance their environmental curricula. Water management Water and energy are interrelated. Water is essential for providing energy and energy is needed to deliver clean water to people. This connection, or nexus, between energy and water highlights the importance of these resources for society and the environment. As such, we work to prevent adverse impacts to water resources from our withdrawals and discharges and prudently manage the water we do use. ExxonMobil develops and implements water management strategies, most notably at the local level, that take into consideration quality and availability, as well as potential trade-offs, such as varied operational efficiencies, increased energy use or the consequences of producing more concentrated waste streams. For more information about how ExxonMobil manages water, visit our website. ExxonMobil’s approach to water use Water use In 2015, the net freshwater consumption at our operations was 300 million cubic meters, representing more than a 5 percent decline since 2007, in part due to the development and implementation of local water management strategies. ExxonMobil’s total freshwater consumption includes use by refineries and chemical plants, oil and gas production, and onshore shale resources development in the United States. Global freshwater consumption1 Millions of cubic meters 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 280 2014 270 2015 300 ExxonMobil's global freshwater consumption in 2015 was 300 million cubic meters.This represents a 30 million cubic meter increase when compared to our 2014 global freshwater consumption. Since 2012, we have actively maintained our freshwater consumption below our 2011 performance.  1We report freshwater intensity alongside consumption data in our performance    data (pages 90-92). Freshwater intensity is the ratio of net freshwater  consumption to the amount of throughput or production. Normalized in this way, we can better understand how efficiently we are using freshwater in our operations. Data collection began in 2007. Includes XTO Energy data beginning in 2011. We recognize that some of our operations use significant amounts of water, and we understand the necessity to engage with stakeholders regarding their concerns about the use and protection of local water resources. For example, the amount of water needed to hydraulically fracture a typical shale gas well ranges from 3 million to 4 million gallons. However, it is important to put this quantity into perspective. For example, the World Resources Institute found that the average golf course in the United States uses 4 million gallons of water in less than one summer month. In fact, hydraulic fracturing operations account for less than 5 percent of our total water consumption. For more information on our water consumption, see the performance graph above. As illustrated on the right, the amount of the freshwater How much water is needed to produce one quart of oil-equivalent energy?2 needed to produce an identical unit of energy from natural gas is less than for a variety of other energy sources, including Freshwater intensity is the total amount of freshwater needed to produce an identical unit of energy for a variety of energy hydroelectric power and ethanol. According to a recent study by the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy Tech.nology Laboratory, shale gas production uses about 10 times less water than is used for coal production, and 1,000 times less water than is used for fuel ethanol or biodiesel production. Even so, we continue to look for opportunities to reduce our water use. ExxonMobil seeks to continuously improve the development and implementation of water management strategies. Part of this effort involves improving our understanding of not only the quantity of our water consumption, but also when and where this consumption occurs. In 2015, ExxonMobil collaborated with ETH Zurich, one of the leading international universities for technology and the natural sciences, to co-author a peer-reviewed paper on improving the capability to assess water stress indices. The purpose of the paper was to explain the impacts of freshwater consumption in life cycle assessments (LCA) of comparative energy sources. In particular, the paper highlights the importance of regional and seasonal variations when considering water stress as part of an LCA. American Chemical Society water stress index paper Based on our analysis using the latest version of the oil and gas industry global water tool, almost 40 percent of our major operating sites are located in areas identified with the potential for water stress or scarcity. Where appropriate, we conduct a detailed local analysis of specific water use-related risks and develop site-specific management strategies such as the deployment of water conservation technologies, the use of alternative freshwater sources, recycling of municipal and industrial wastewater and harvesting of rainwater. sources and transportation fuels. Natural gas One oil-equivalent quart of natural gas requires anywhere from a tablespoon to a cup of water. Unconventional or “fracked” natural gas is at the higher end of the range. Extracted coal One oil-equivalent quart of extracted coal requires less than two quarts of water. Ethanol One oil-equivalent quart of ethanol requires from six quarts to as much as 1,176 quarts of water (depending on irrigation). This is typical of most biofuels. Petroleum One quart of petroleum requires from one to two-and-a-half quarts of water. (Extraction itself requires less than a cup — most of the water goes toward cooling in the refinery.) Electric power from coal One oil-equivalent quart of electric power from coal requires anywhere from 11 to 18 quarts of water for cooling. (Gas-fired turbines also require cooling water, but are a bit more efficient and require less water than coal-fired plants.) Hydroelectric power One oil-equivalent quart of hydroelectric power requires from 15 quarts to as much as 5,040 quarts of water because of evaporation and subsurface seepage from reservoirs. For example, conventional methods of dust suppression can require large amounts of freshwater to maintain safe working conditions. By applying a biodegradable dust-control product to the roads at our oil sands operations in Kearl, Canada, we were able to significantly reduce the amount of water required to manage road dust. In 2015 alone, the Kearl oil sands operations saved an estimated 36 million gallons of water. One quart of oil  Ten cyclists in a  A team of 13 horses  Heating up an 80-gallon  10-hour race  working one hour  water heater to  shower temperature  2Adapted from the freshwater intensity page at exxonmobil.com. Wastewater management ExxonMobil responsibly manages process wastewater and produced water from our operations, and we proactively look for opportunities to address any potential water quality issues. For our Upstream projects, our Water Management Standard outlines minimum expected environmental performance and mitigation measures. This Standard establishes the planning and design basis for reducing impacts to surface waters, groundwaters, estuarine and marine waters as well as to the associated habitats and users, from a use or consumption viewpoint as well as with regard to discharge quality. Produced water, a byproduct of upstream oil and gas operations, is typically managed onshore by injection into deep underground reservoirs. For offshore production facilities, produced water is managed by re-injection into an associated reservoir or treatment and discharge into the marine environment in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. From 2014 to 2015, ExxonMobil conducted a series of sampling and modeling initiatives in Australia to evaluate how produced water discharges might interact with the local marine environment. The results showed the amount by which the concentration of discharge constituents vary day-to-day and the way discharges mix in the sea with the surrounding currents. These factors are critical to understanding the overall environmental impacts of the discharges. The study will continue in 2016. Seismicity The topic of induced seismicity has gained more attention over the past few years. In some instances, due to unique geologic conditions, oil and gas operations may trigger seismic activity. Such operations may include reservoir depletion, wastewater disposal injection and in rare situations, hydraulic fracturing. We recognize the issue of oil and gas operations inducing seismicity is a matter of public concern. No matter the cause — natural or human induced — local communities have concerns about seismic activity in their area. We support risk management and mitigation approaches that consider various mitigation methods for the relative risks in a given context, including the assessment of factors such as fluid volumes, formation character, tectonic setting, operating experience and local construction standards. For example, at XTO Energy, we follow a disciplined injection well siting protocol, which uses available data, including federal, state or internal seismic information, to conduct a risk assessment prior to siting a disposal well. Some government agencies mitigate seismicity risk during development with operational “traffic light” systems. We believe it is important to gain a better understanding of all types and sources of seismic activity. By supporting research at universities, cooperating with governmental agencies and conducting our own research, we are contributing to developing a better understanding of seismicity. We believe having a science-based risk management approach is an essential foundation for evaluating events and avoiding adverse effects of seismicity. In addition, ExxonMobil has been strengthening our risk management systems related to this challenge and proactively sharing our findings with local communities, academia and regulators. In 2015, ExxonMobil provided technical leadership to States First — a multi-state initiative aimed at facilitating innovative regulatory solutions for oil and natural gas producing states — for its induced seismicity working group’s primer on potential injection-induced seismicity associated with oil and gas development. Specifically, the primer provides guidance on evaluating risks associated with induced seismicity from wastewater disposal wells and helps regulatory agencies develop strategies for managing and mitigating risks. Research findings for the primer indicate that risk management, risk mitigation and response strategies are most effective when specific local geologic conditions and operational situations are considered. Accordingly, the primer does not recommend specific policies, emphasizing that a one-size fits all regulatory scheme would not be flexible enough to account for area-specific risks and concerns. “State agencies are on the forefront of oil and gas regulation and are diligently working to address the safety and environmental issues surrounding modern energy development. Knowing how to best mitigate and manage the risk of induced seismic events requires multidisciplinary scientific understanding that often reaches beyond the domain expertise of any individual state agency or regulatory body. ExxonMobil’s technical leadership alongside the contributions of academia, environmental stakeholders and regulators provides a valuable contribution in helping States First develop a guide for regulators that is grounded in the best available science.” Mike Paque Executive director, Groundwater Protection Council Potential injection-induced seismicity associated with oil and gas development: A primer on technical and regulatory considerations informing risk management and mitigation Spill performance We implement preventive measures to avoid spills and continually seek to improve our risk management, operations integrity and containment capabilities. As a result of these efforts, we had fewer spills in 2015 compared with 2014. Over the past five years, we have reduced the number of spills greater than 1 barrel by more than 30 percent. If a spill does occur, we ensure a rapid, comprehensive response. The total volume of hydrocarbons spilled to soil and water was 10,800 barrels in 2015, and more than 55 percent was recovered at the spill sites. The majority of these spills did not affect third parties or the communities that surround our assets. In 2012, we started measuring significant spills to the environment (SSEs) across the corporation. SSEs are a subset of our overall spills, which we define as spills that have impacted or have the potential to impact surface water, groundwater, sensitive environments or communities. We had 11 SSEs in 2015, which represented approximately three percent of the total number of spills. Our largest SSE occurred when 10 U.S.-Midcontinent production facility tank releases occurred during a flooding event related to a tropical Claire Madden, ExxonMobil manager of lubricants sales process and operations, celebrates at the christening ceremony for the Eagle Bay in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Significant spills to the environment Number of spills of any fluid type that warrant greater focus 2012 20 2013 18 2014 19 2015 11 In 2012, ExxonMobil began measuring significant spills to the environment (SSEs), the number of spills of any fluid type that warrant greater focus. In 2015, we had 11 SSEs, more than a 40 percent decrease from 2014. storm. Other SSEs that occurred were related to valve and flow line failures during normal operations. The findings from our SSEs have prompted further preventive work on facility integrity and reliability upgrades, as well as addressing human factor causal elements. We are increasing focus on learning from these spills to prevent their recurrence. ExxonMobil recognizes the potential risk for spills from marine vessels and we take a diligent approach to safe and environmentally responsible marine transportation. The worldwide marine business of ExxonMobil’s affiliates, which involves about 500 vessels in daily service, logged more than 21,500 voyages and 47,000 port calls in 2015, safely transporting approximately 1.5 billion barrels of crude oil and refined products. This year, ExxonMobil’s marine affiliate, SeaRiver Maritime Inc., placed the Eagle Bay, the second of its two new U.S. crude oil tankers, into service transporting crude oil from Alaska’s North Slope. This vessel incorporates the latest safety technologies and greatly reduces air emissions, which earned it the 2015 Green Ship Award from the Port of Long Beach. For additional information on our efforts to reduce air emissions in our operations, see page 53. In addition to marine transportation, ExxonMobil Pipeline Company transports approximately 2.6 million barrels of petroleum and chemical feedstocks and products through approximately 5,000 miles of active pipelines operated in the United States every day. We are committed to pipeline safety and carefully maintain and monitor our infrastructure to identify and prevent corrosion, third-party damage or illegal intrusions Spills (not from marine vessels)3 Number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills greater than 1 barrel  2006 2007 2008 2009 2010  253 211 242 210  295  2011 3562012 2013 2014 2015  330 334 319  Spills to water  Spills to soil  In 2015, we had 319 oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills greater than 1 barrel (not from marine vessels), the majority of which were spills to soil. This number has decreased significantly over the past five years due to our relentless approach to operations integrity. 3Includes XTO Energy data beginning in 2011. onto our rights of way. We patrol our pipeline routes and monitor pipeline operations using state-of-the-art systems, alarms and other monitoring technologies. For more information on how we are managing products transported by rail, see page 22. Offshore oil spill response As part of ExxonMobil’s commitment to maintaining opera.tional excellence everywhere we work, we have developed specialized offshore spill response capabilities and tactics. We have the industry’s only dedicated, in-house oil spill response research program, which includes a focus on cold water and remote locations, such as the Arctic. ExxonMobil has participated in and provided technical lead.ership to several joint industry projects to enhance industry offshore spill response capability. These initiatives include the American Petroleum Institute (API) joint industry task force, the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) Arctic oil spill response technology joint industry program, an IOGP and IPIECA joint industry project and the API oil sands technical subcommittee. These initiatives allow us to share best practices and learn from our peers. For more information about this topic, visit the following websites: API joint industry task force Arctic oil spill response technology IOGP-IPIECA joint industry project Additionally, for the past five years, ExxonMobil has been an active member of the Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC), an independent not-for-profit company that provides well containment equipment and technology in the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In 2015, we re-entered a pre-existing exploratory well for development in the Gulf of Mexico’s Julia oil field after receiving a cap-and-flow permit from the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement. This permit was awarded based on the enhanced response capability of MWCC capture vessels. MWCC added two modular capture vessels to its inventory in 2015. These vessels, which ExxonMobil took the lead in constructing, are maintained and operated on behalf of the MWCC’s 10 member companies. Marine Well Containment Company We continually identify and develop advanced technologies to manage risks and improve offshore oil spill response. For example, we commercialized the use of biodegradable surfactants that can be sprayed onto the water surface around the perimeter of an oil slick, causing the oil to retract and thicken so that it can be burned in a controlled fashion without using a fire-resistant boom. Air emissions Air emissions Environmental compliance We seek opportunities to reduce the air emissions associated with our operations and the products we deliver to increase shareholder value and meet regulatory requirements. As a result of these efforts, ExxonMobil’s combined emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) have decreased more than 45 percent over the past 10 years across all of our businesses. One example of how we have reduced emissions from our Upstream operations involves Balder, one of ExxonMobil’s permanent, floating production vessels stationed offshore Norway. From 2013 to 2015, the vessel’s four main power engines were converted to low-NOx systems. The conversion has reduced annual NOx emissions by approximately 21 percent, equal to 290 metric tons of NOx per year. Another example involves our Antwerp refinery in Belgium. In 2015, the refinery began construction of a new tail gas cleanup (TGCU) system to reduce on-site SO2 emissions by more than 2,300 metric tons per year. The TGCU is expected to be fully operational in 2017. Millions of metric tons 0.35 0.30 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 VOCs SO2 NOx In 2015, the combined SO2, NOx and VOC emissions from our operations totaled 0.39 million metric tons, representing a slight decrease from 2014. In January 2015, the International Maritime Organization reduced the cap on the sulfur content in marine vessel fuels from 1.0 to 0.1 percent by mass for all ships operating in emission control areas (ECA). This action has reshaped the shipping landscape, particularly in Europe and North America, spurring new demand for fuels that help marine operators comply with the cap. In response, we introduced ExxonMobil Premium Heavy Distillate Marine 50, an ECA-compliant premium fuel that combines the low sulfur content of lighter marine oils with the lower volatility typically associated with heavy fuel oils. “By working collaboratively across the Downstream, ExxonMobil developed a wide and exciting array of solutions to lead the marine industry into this new era.” Nancy Carlson Vice president, aviation and marine ExxonMobil complies with applicable host-country environmental laws and regulations and applies responsible standards where laws and regulations do not exist. Wherever reasonable, we strive to go beyond compliance to demonstrate leadership in environmental management. One example of this is at our Baton Rouge refinery in Louisiana. ExxonMobil’s Baton Rouge refinery is the third-largest refinery in the United States, occupying 2,100 acres along the Mississippi River. In 2014, we upgraded the biological oxidation (BIOX) wastewater treatment system at the refinery. Our investment included an additional $10 million to increase denitrification capacity. The new BIOX system became fully operational in January 2015 and has successfully cut effluent nitrate levels by 50 percent. The system has also helped reduce the refinery’s overall reportable releases to the environment, including air emissions, water discharges and offsite waste transfers, by 30 percent. “This project is good for the environment and the Mississippi River. We’re reducing nitrates and also making a small reduction in air emissions. This project will support our facility for decades and ensure our leadership in environmental stewardship.” Irving (Junior) Sanders Refinery senior water advisor, Baton Rouge Our worldwide environmental expenditures in 2015 totaled approximately $5.6 billion. This included an estimated $1.8 billion in capital expenditures and approximately $3.8 billion in operating expenses. In 2015, 53 penalties, fines and settlements were paid, accounting for less than one-tenth of one percent of total environmental expenditures, or about $5.5 million. Rehabilitation and decommissioning Effectively decommissioning onshore and offshore assets is essential to reducing our overall environmental impact. When operations reach the end of their useful life, we work to ensure the safe and responsible decommissioning of our assets. To do so, we develop decommissioning plans that utilize proven and cost-effective methods and consider potential risks, costs and benefits. Since its creation in 2008, ExxonMobil Environmental Services (EMES) — our global functional organization that provides guidance and support on the remediation and stewardship of surplus sites — has managed more than $5.7 billion of remediation work and returned more than 1,800 properties to beneficial end uses. In 2015 alone, EMES monitored 5,700 active sites in more than 30 countries. In 2015, we collaborated with the Land Trust Alliance, a national land conservation organization, to create Establishing Conservation Easements on Corporate Lands: A Guide for Corporations and Land Trusts. This document will serve as a reference tool for many corporations, including those in the oil and gas industry, when managing land with inherent conservation value warranting permanent protection. Establishing Conservation Easements on Corporate Lands: A Guide for Corporations and Land Trusts Whenever possible, we look for opportunities to repurpose former ExxonMobil sites and surplus properties for beneficial use. For example, Harris County, Texas, is home to an inland waterfowl rookery, which serves as a sheltered breeding spot for herons, egrets, spoonbills and other species of coastal water birds. To help protect the rookery, we donated more than five acres of surplus land located adjacent to the rookery for stewardship by the Armand Bayou Nature Center. The former drill site now serves as a protective buffer to ensure that the rookery and its inhabitants are safe from future development. Rehabilitation We continually seek to enhance our reclamation processes by integrating site remediation plans into life cycle planning for an asset. Before Imperial Oil, an ExxonMobil affiliate in Canada, began construction of the Kearl development, a pre-disturbance assessment was conducted. This assessment helped to document reference conditions for the site’s soils and vegetation, which will be used to plan and execute end-of-life site reclamation work. In particular, topsoil was salvaged during the construction phase so that it could be used during reclamation. Our focus on site rehabilitation leads us toward innovative ways to ensure the land we use is available for environmental and societal benefits in the future. For example, as areas of the Kearl oil sands mine in Canada are no longer needed, we prioritize them for progressive reclamation. Progressive reclamation not only prevents erosion in the short term, but also allows the land to be returned to the local boreal forest ecosystem more quickly. Reclamation planners at Kearl, working closely with local First Nations, aim to achieve a maintenance-free, self-sustaining landscape in the long term, the planning for which takes into account traditional knowledge of the area’s wildlife, habitat and biodiversity. As of 2015, cumulative permanent reclamation on the Kearl lease was approximately 242 acres that include terrestrial, wetland and aquatic ecosystems. ExxonMobil is committed to the responsible, sustainable and consistent stewardship of rehabilitated former operational sites. We support science-based, cost-effective approaches to remediation that utilize consistent criteria and seek to align the interests of a broad array of stakeholders. In 2013, EMES used an organic capping approach to treat marshland and a cove impacted by the Pegasus Pipeline incident. This technique promotes the most effective cleanup with the least environmental disturbance. Some of the affected soil and sediment in the cove was targeted for removal and reactive capping was employed in the open water area using a mixture of sand and clay. This multi-dimensional risk-based approach addresses residual sheening conditions observed in isolated areas in the western part of the cove. Up Close: Offshore decommissioning in the Gulf of Mexico The deepwater Gulf of Mexico is one of the largest sources of oil production in the United States and will likely play a key role in meeting rising global energy demand. However, Gulf of Mexico operations present a unique set of technological, environmental and social challenges throughout the life of an asset. ExxonMobil has been safely conducting exploration and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico for more than 60 years. Technological advances have enabled ExxonMobil to produce offshore oil and gas deposits in water depths that seemed unreachable a generation ago. While ExxonMobil uses a systematic process for decommissioning offshore assets, our site-specific approach varies depending on the type of structure and unique characteristics of a location. Decommissioning Throughout the Upstream asset life cycle — from exploration to decommissioning — care is taken to limit disruptions to local communities and protect the environment. Accordingly, ExxonMobil ensures that decommissioning activities are planned and conducted to appropriately manage risks. For our fixed manufacturing assets, the same care is taken. For example, in 2015, we completed decommissioning a steam cracker at our Fawley refinery in the United Kingdom, the largest demolition project ExxonMobil has carried out in Europe. As part of the project, ExxonMobil worked to preserve materials that could be reused or recycled for other purposes. In total, we segregated and recycled around 15,000 metric tons of materials, which represented 89 percent of all materials recovered from the demolition site. Ferrous and non-ferrous metals were sold as scrap and the concrete was crushed and reused for land reclamation. Material that was unable to be recycled was disposed of according to local regulations. In all cases, we evaluate potential strategies based on a number of factors including safety, environmental and social considerations. Certain decommissioning strategies have the potential to provide continued benefits to the environment. Accordingly, we use comparative assessments as well as ecological data to determine the best strategy. One example of our approach to offshore decommissioning was demonstrated at a deepwater platform site offshore of Louisiana. To help understand the unique ecological envi.ronment supported by this offshore platform, ExxonMobil’s Upstream Research Company (URC) used remotely operated vehicles (ROV) to complete an ecologically focused deep sea survey. URC partnered with a Gulf of Mexico fisheries expert from Louisiana State University, Dr. Mark Benfield, who assisted in developing new detection methodologies and reviewing the ROV data. The survey data confirmed that the platform hosts a healthy and diverse biological community, including thriving communities of Lophelia pertusa, a deepwater coral species. Additionally, the project incorporated environmental considerations. For example, some activities were rescheduled to avoid potential impact on nesting birds and annual bird migrations. The Fawley site also features a small population of wild bee orchids and particular care was taken not to damage the orchids during the flowering season. “It really is the end of an era. I hope this project can stand as an example to the petrochemical industry of how the demolition of large-scale units can be achieved in a safe and controlled manner.” Rob Tarbard Project manager, Fawley demolition End of an era for a steam cracker at Fawley Lophelia pertusa is an important species because it provides habitat for other invertebrates and fish in a similar manner to shallow water coral reefs. Many other deepwater invertebrates were also identified, including squat lobsters, sea stars, anemones and crabs. A variety of deepwater fish species were also identified on or very near the structure. “At this offshore platform site is a large oasis of healthy cold-water coral reef in an otherwise low-diversity, soft-bottom region of the northern Gulf of Mexico. The scientific analysis completed to date supports the opportunity of reefing in place. This overall area available for cold-water corals and their associated fish and invertebrate populations has established an important habitat for large, reproductively important groupers and other deepwater fishes and an opportunity to study the expansion of a cold-water coral reef community. Maintaining this habitat will also help to eliminate a population of invasive orange cup coral and associated Indo-Pacific lionfish.” Dr. Mark Benfield Professor, Louisiana State University Offshore assets present unique and complex decommissioning challenges due to a combination of factors, including the specific marine ecosystem at each site and the size and weight of facilities, as well as the inherent risks of removing such facilities in marine environments. As a result, the planning and preparation for decommissioning some offshore assets can start up to 10 years prior to the actual execution. During the planning phase, we seek to incorporate lessons learned from other decommissioning projects as well as expert advice from interested parties. These parties may include fishing communities, environmental organizations and academia. We believe stakeholder engagement is critical to helping us gain public support for the facility decommissioning recommendations we submit to the government. In recognition of the unique challenges associated with offshore assets, we created an offshore decommissioning center of expertise (COE) in 2015. This COE is tasked with planning and managing the decommissioning of our offshore assets. Case Study Technological innovations in Arctic wildlife protection Our Point Thomson project along the Beaufort Sea coast in Alaska. We have implemented technological advancements to improve our understanding of the tundra, wildlife, aquatic resources and subsistence activities near our operations. ExxonMobil’s Point Thomson project is located on state acre.age along the Beaufort Sea coast, 60 miles east of Prudhoe Bay, Alaska. The Point Thomson reservoir holds an estimated 8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and associated natural gas condensate, a high-quality hydrocarbon similar to diesel. These resources represent about 25 percent of the known natural gas reserves in Alaska’s North Slope. From the outset of the project, ExxonMobil has worked to understand the local physical, biological and social environment. It is our goal to develop Point Thomson safely and responsibly. We believe that strong safety, security, health, environmental and social performance is integral to the overall success of the project. Throughout the planning, design and construction of Point Thomson, ExxonMobil has made it a priority to effectively manage environmental impacts. We have implemented comprehensive measures to mitigate potential impacts on tundra, wildlife, aquatic resources and subsistence activities. As part of the project, care is taken to ensure wildlife and wildlife habitat in the area are protected. We use marine mammal and wildlife protection plans that are recognized by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service as a North Slope industry best practice. We continually look for technological advancements to improve our understanding of the wildlife near our operations. In 2015, we piloted and enhanced a series of emerging technologies in the oil and gas industry, including the use of satellite-based remote sensing technology, ground surveillance radar (GSR) and unmanned aerial systems (UAS) to monitor local wildlife and improve our environmental performance in the vicinity of our Point Thomson project site. Polar bears, which are a protected species under the Marine Mammal Protection Act and a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act, travel through the Point Thomson area. ExxonMobil has taken several measures to identify and avoid potential contact with polar bears and polar bear dens, including the use of forward-looking infrared cameras to survey surrounding areas. We also provide training to Point Thomson employees and contractors on best practices for avoiding and mitigating interactions with wildlife. Early detec.tion of polar bears helps workers to maintain a safe distance, improves our ability to monitor bear movement and, if neces.sary, allows us to warn workers to seek safe haven or safely redirect bears away from our facilities in accordance with procedures approved by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. In April 2015, we upgraded and expanded the use of GSR technology to detect polar bears and other large animals approaching from distances greater than one kilometer. This pilot program combines state-of-the-art radar with pan-tilt-zoom infrared and visual spectrum cameras to provide visual confirmation of objects detected by the radar. The technology put in place at Point Thomson is believed to be one of the most advanced detection and avoidance systems ever deployed in a remote Arctic environment — where both human safety and polar bear protection are vital concerns. We are enhancing the system in 2016 with additional radar panels and cameras to provide greater coverage around the facility. A core component of ExxonMobil’s vision for Point Thomson is to be a good neighbor. We work with the local communities and government authorities in the project area to understand their concerns and avoid conflicts with their lifestyle. Through a comprehensive assessment approach and regular engagement, we are able to identify areas of concern to the local residents, and we have adopted corresponding measures to address these concerns. We also engage with stakeholders in local communities and with government and regulatory agencies to help address biodiversity and sustainability challenges. For example, ExxonMobil participates in meetings and workshops with North Slope Borough officials and residents to develop a deeper understanding of local concerns and priorities. A worker launching a PrecisionHawk fixed-wing UAS near the Point Thomson project. ExxonMobil monitors caribou in the Point Thomson project area to assess herd migration patterns. Traditional aerial surveys were conducted in June 2013 and June 2014 to count caribou in the project area and document calving locations. Between May and September 2013, we deployed motion-activated cameras to document caribou movements near planned infrastructure, and in 2014, we monitored caribou behavior around constructed facilities. In response to feedback from North Slope communities about the use of low-flying aircraft in caribou surveys, we tested the capabilities of satellite-based remote sensing techniques to monitor the annual summer caribou migration near our project location in 2015. Following three years of monitoring, the number of caribou moving through the area suggested that the presence of the pipeline did not deter caribou movements. Using remote sensing technology enabled us to augment aerial surveys and reduce the use of low-flying aircraft for caribou surveys. We used high-resolution imagery collected from three satellite platforms, in coordination with an Caribou migrating through the Point Thomson area, as detected by a tundra camera. aircraft survey and caribou collar GPS data, to determine known caribou locations. Data from all three platforms were evaluated for visual and unique spectral signatures. The preliminary results from this initiative proved promising, and we will continue to test remote sensing and other emerging technologies to further enhance our wildlife monitoring initiatives. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to use remote sensing methodologies to monitor caribou populations on the North Slope of Alaska. ExxonMobil also seeks to protect wetlands, streams, lakes and marine waters in the Point Thomson area. For example, we designed roads, bridges and culverts in a manner that maintains natural drainage patterns and stream flows to the extent possible. Additionally, where appropriate, ExxonMobil uses bridges instead of culverts to mitigate potential impacts on fish passage and stream flows. In 2015, our engineers and scientists experimented with two UAS surveys at Point Thomson to evaluate tundra vegetation and water bodies as an alternative to traditional helicopter-based surveys. The UAS proved to be more accurate and provided superior imagery for photographic monitoring of these important environmental sites. During the same experiment, we evaluated the ability to survey pipelines in the vicinity of our Point Thomson operations. Point Thomson marks a new era both for ExxonMobil in Alaska and on the North Slope. ExxonMobil’s investments will open the eastern North Slope to new development and lead to the prolonged use of the trans-Alaska pipeline system. Throughout the planning, design and construction of the Point Thomson project, ExxonMobil has made it a priority to avoid or reduce environmental and social impacts and their related risks. We have implemented a variety of mitigation measures with a focus on the tundra, wildlife, aquatic resources and subsistence activities to ensure our operations are conducted in a responsible manner. Unmanned aerial systems pilot at the Point Thomson project Community and social impact Members of ADPP, an ExxonMobil Foundation grant recipient, participating in women s farmer clubs in Angola. ExxonMobil strives to have a positive impact around the world on the individual communities in which we live and operate. We seek to contribute to the social and economic progress of the local communities where we operate. We believe that maintaining a fundamental respect for human rights, respon.sibly managing our impacts on communities and making valued social investments are integral to the success and sustainability of our business. The socioeconomic aspects of our business fall into seven broad categories, as depicted below. While all of these socioeconomic aspects are discussed in this report, in this chapter we focus on the following five topics: human rights; community relations; indigenous peoples; cultural heritage and diversity; and land use and resettlement. For information on transparency and anti-corruption, see the corporate governance chapter beginning on page 81, and for economic development, see the local development and supply chain management chapter beginning on page 74. Respecting human rights ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights. Our approach to human rights is consistent with the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which outline the distinct, yet complementary, roles of government and business with regard to human rights: the government’s duty to protect human rights, and business’ responsibility to respect them. We believe that understanding and addressing the interests of communities where we operate, and the potential impact of our operations on them, is critical to maintaining a sustainable business. ExxonMobil actively engages with stakeholders in local communities and integrates these discussions into decision-making processes to identify any issues or concerns early on in a project. In 2015, we developed a risk assessment tool — as part of our Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process — that enhances operational due diligence by strengthening awareness of potential human rights impacts and risks. ExxonMobil operates in environments where engagement with host governments is needed to support security and respect for human rights in local operations. We have been a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights since 2002, and in 2015 we became one of the corporate representatives on the steering committee of the Voluntary Principles. Through our role on the steering committee, we work closely with governments, non.governmental organizations (NGOs) and industry to share and promote best practices in security and human rights. Our Statement and Framework on Security and Human Rights includes guidance on working with both host governments and private security personnel in a manner that respects human rights. We also have agreements with private security firms with which we work that contain requirements to uphold human rights. These agreements include expectations for training and compliance with relevant local, UN and other security-related frameworks. In 2015, we updated our Upstream Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) for security to address expectations regarding the Framework, including responsibilities for employees and contractors in our Upstream operations. We conduct assessments to verify implementation of the Framework as part of our OIMS process. ExxonMobil complies with all applicable laws and regulations and seeks to work with suppliers and business partners who share our commitment to human rights. For information on detecting, preventing and managing human rights risks in our supply chain, see page 78. Within our own workforce, our commitment to human rights is supported by our Standards of Business Conduct and our Statement on Labor and the Workplace. Our Statement reinforces support for the principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, notably the elimination of child labor, forced labor and workplace discrimination. Up Close: Human rights general awareness training ExxonMobil has conducted human rights training in select regions for many years. We believe our training builds understanding of human rights and awareness of potential impacts. In late 2015, we rolled out a new computer-based human rights training module to further enhance internal awareness of human rights. This training primarily targets employees working in locations with higher potential human rights risks, and it includes information about what human rights entail as well as their relevance to ExxonMobil. As of year-end 2015, more than 1,200 employees in over 40 countries have participated in the training, including personnel working on the development of the Chad-Cameroon pipeline system. This newest training module complements existing training programs that have been underway for several years in security and socioeconomics. “The Chad-Cameroon development project involves complex operational, environmental and social issues. We believe a commitment to respect human rights is critical to our license to operate in our producing areas and along the pipeline route. The computer-based training provides our employees with a more in-depth understanding of potential human rights risks, and helps increase awareness of employee responsibilities regarding this issue.” Christian Lenoble General manager, Esso Exploration and Production Chad Inc. Managing community engagement ExxonMobil works in communities all over the world, each with their own unique cultures, needs and sensitivities. We strive to have a positive impact on the individual communities in which we live and operate. We believe proactively man.aging potential issues, while also enhancing community bene.fits, is integral to developing long-term, positive relationships. ExxonMobil believes a consistent approach helps our employees, contractors and partners effectively manage socioeconomic issues. We use our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard to identify potential socioeconomic impacts and their associated risks early in the Upstream asset life cycle, and then develop and implement appropriate avoidance, reduction, remedy and monitoring measures. In 2010, ExxonMobil established a socioeconomic management center of expertise (COE) to ensure a systematic approach to a dynamic and evolving arena. The COE utilizes a functional advisory team with various representatives from relevant company business lines, such as procurement, treasurers, land, security, medical and occupational health, and public and government affairs. The advisory team meets semiannually to review and discuss strategy, alignment and direction regarding socioeconomic considerations. The COE also meets with our External Citizenship Advisory Panel annually to review initiatives and gain insights and direction for future efforts. Further, a socioeconomic management course regarding implementation of the Upstream Socioeconomic Manage.ment Standard and its elements is held twice a year. This course has provided a forum for more than 100 ExxonMobil employees from 18 countries to collaborate as well as exchange ideas and lessons learned. We have found that in order to optimize opportunities for creating and enhancing positive socioeconomic effects and to successfully implement appropriate risk management measures, identifying actual and potential impacts early is essential. The Hebron project under construction in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. Up Close: The Hebron project in Canada Located offshore Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, the Hebron project is estimated to produce more than 700 million barrels of recoverable resources over the next 30 years. The project requires a number of components, including a gravity-based structure (GBS) that stands on the seafloor and supports the topsides modules, which contain living quarters and drilling and processing operations. Several of these components are being built at Bull Arm, one of Hebron’s main construction sites in Newfoundland and Labrador. Since 2009, a number of programs have evolved from our ongoing community consultation, including construction site tours and ocean education programs. The project launched a public tour program in 2013, through which more than 2,600 visitors have taken bus tours of the Bull Arm construction site. The tour route includes a view of the camp facilities and two lookout points: one overlooking the former dry dock area and the second overlooking the deepwater site. A dedicated tour facilitator accompanies each group and provides a safety overview, history of the site and an overview of activities to date for both the GBS and topside modules. Through our consultation with various community groups in Newfoundland and Labrador, we learned of a common desire to increase the public’s ocean awareness and education. In response, project personnel worked with local organizations to develop ocean education programs that support science education while reflecting the local community’s oceanic culture and economy. Contributions made by the project also facilitated the establishment of the Oceans Learning Partnership, a multi-stakeholder organization dedicated to enhancing the awareness and interest in the ocean and ocean-related careers among the youth of Newfoundland and Labrador. In 2012, the Hebron project funded the “Floating Classroom,” a 42-foot-long, state-of-the-art research vessel designed to help K–12 students develop skills in oceanographic, biological and meteorological fields. The program engages students through hands-on learning experiences at sea, including identifying marine species and habitats and measuring water quality and weather conditions. The project also contributed to the establishment of the Petty Harbour Mini Aquarium, a seasonal small-scale aquarium that showcases marine life found in Newfoundland’s coastal waters. As a seasonal program, all of the marine life in the tanks is returned to the local waters at the end of each season. In each of its first three years of operation, more than 17,000 people have visited the aquarium. Up Close: Community advisory panels in Appalachia Many areas in Appalachia have a long history of energy devel.opment. However, unconventional oil and gas development is still relatively new. Our approach to community relations is grounded in general principles that allow us to tailor our efforts to address the needs of a given community where we live and operate. In order to tailor our approach to local issues, we have developed community advisory panels (CAP) near our operations in areas of Pennsylvania and Ohio. To form a CAP, we partner with community leaders who live and By outlining different expectations based on the identification of relevant socioeconomic aspects, the Standard ensures that our Upstream activities proactively identify socioeconomic risks and implement timely well-balanced solutions. Community relations Working collaboratively and transparently with local communities is essential to promoting positive long-term relationships and fostering ongoing support for our activities. We make every effort to consult with community stakeholders on a regular basis for the purpose of exchanging information and proactively identifying issues or concerns. By integrating the results of these discussions into our decision-making processes, we can help avoid or reduce our impacts on communities, enhance benefits, avert delays, reduce costs and prevent the escalation of issues. ExxonMobil defines our location-specific community awareness programs and government relations protocols using our Best Practices in External Affairs (BPEA) coupled with ESHIAs and/or Environmental, Social and Health Management Plans (ESHMPs). Our BPEA process is designed to help identify the specific needs, expectations and interests of host communities and aligns those needs work in the areas where we operate — local officials, leaders in education, business community members, emergency and first responders, land and mineral rights owners and local charitable organizations. Recognizing that there is no substitute for face-to-face communication, XTO Energy employees engage regularly with these community leaders to discuss the phases of our operations, including drilling, hydraulic fracturing, production and processing. Additionally, in order to give context to our discussions, we provide site tours to give an up-close look at our operations. We believe that engaging in open dialogue with members of the community is vital to our long-term success in the region. Our regular meetings help us stay in direct contact with the community as we strive to address concerns that arise in real time, and help keep the community up to date about our activities. In addition to providing context to our operations, with our community investment programs. We utilize ESHIAs to identify the actual and potential impacts of a specific project and ways to avoid, reduce or remedy those impacts. Together, BPEA and ESHIAs help build and maintain a positive and transparent relationship in the communities in which we operate. We seek to ensure interested stakeholders are fairly repre.sented as community issues are discussed and decisions are made. Once a project starts, we provide local groups and individuals with communication channels to voice concerns. Our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard includes provisions for establishing a systematic and trans.parent grievance management process to address individual and community concerns about a project. When appropriate, dedicated personnel are responsible for developing and managing a process to map, track, analyze and respond to community grievances. Indigenous peoples Our operations sometimes take place in areas inhabited or historically used by indigenous peoples. In locations such as this, we work with indigenous communities to respectfully protect their cultures and customs. XTO Energy engineers and geologists explain the steps we take to safeguard the community and the environment and to combat the misinformation about our industry that is prevalent in the media. “There is no ‘one-size-fits-all’ solution to community engagement. Every community has its own unique needs and challenges, and we work to maintain an ongoing dialogue with our neighbors, partners and local leaders. By developing strong relationships, we can better understand the needs of our communities and help ensure the work we do is creating a lasting benefit.” Amy Dobkin Community relations manager, XTO Energy Appalachia Division Our approach to interacting with indigenous peoples around the world is consistent with the following four guidelines: • ILO Convention 169 Concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries • United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples • International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability • World Bank Operational Policy and Bank Procedure on Indigenous Peoples When working with indigenous peoples, one of our key objectives is to determine how they prefer to engage. For example, communities can decide if they want us to meet with elected leaders, community elders or other representatives, and if those engagements are conducted in a public forum, either formal or informal. We empower the communities to establish their preference for how often and how long their members meet with ExxonMobil representatives, and who will provide their viewpoints or represent their wishes. Up Close: Working with indigenous peoples in Kaktovik, Alaska The village of Kaktovik, located within the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge Coastal Plain on Barter Island, is home to approximately 250 to 300 residents of Inupiat Eskimo descent whose ancestors have lived in the area for centuries. During the 1890s and early 1900s, Barter Island was an important trading site for commercial whalers. Early inhabitants of the region were semi-nomadic and relied heavily on the availability of fish, game and marine mammals. Today, Kaktovik residents continue to maintain a strong connection to the cultural heritage of their ancestors. Our Point Thomson project is located on state acreage along the remote Beaufort Sea coast, 60 miles west of Kaktovik. A central tenet of our vision for Point Thomson is to be a good neighbor. Through regular and consistent communication with Kaktovik community leaders and residents, we learned about their long-standing desire to reconnect with a collection of more than 3,000 artifacts that were excavated and removed from the area in 1914 and curated at the Canadian Museum of History (CMH). The collection includes antler arrowheads, ivory harpoon heads, traditional copper slate knives and other remarkably preserved artifacts that represent a way of life extending back 1,000 years. The Point Thomson project’s multi-year cultural resources management program culminated in the return of this collection to Alaska for the first time since 1914. As part of a museum-to-museum loan, the CMH sent this iconic collection to the University of Alaska Museum of the North in Fairbanks, where ExxonMobil sponsored Kaktovik cultural experts to visit and assist researchers in the documentation and analysis process. The program soon evolved into a cultural exchange where village residents were able to reconnect with the collection, helping bolster local elementary and secondary education programs that preserve and advance their rich Inupiat cultural heritage. Return of artifacts to Alaska fulfills century-old promise In addition, we seek to provide mutually beneficial training, employment and business opportunities to indigenous peoples through local content programs and strategic community investments. For additional information on our strategic community investment initiatives, see page 64. A core component of our operations is ensuring the safety of our employees as well as neighboring communities. In 2015, ExxonMobil partnered with the Marine Exchange of Alaska, a nonprofit maritime organization, and two local indigenous villages to upgrade safety technology in their communication centers near our operations at Point Thomson, Alaska. Vessel tracking software and communication devices were used to help village residents monitor marine vessel traffic in relation to their traditional subsistence hunting areas. As a result of this effort, marine users were able to avoid conflicts with subsistence activities and carry out their operations in a safe manner. We continue to participate on the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, IPIECA’s, task force on free prior and informed consent, which focuses on gaining clarity on the definition and best practices for working with indigenous peoples. In 2015, IPIECA continued to monitor developments related to this topic and held periodic calls, sessions and webinars to share local knowledge and discuss emerging trends. Cultural heritage and diversity We are sensitive to concerns around balancing cultural heritage with the desire for economic development. Our respect for the cultural heritage and customs of local communities carries into our everyday business practices. For our Upstream projects, we incorporate into our project planning, design and execution considerations such as cultural, spiritual or sacred heritage sites and areas, biodiversity conservation, traditional knowledge and sustainable resource management. Prior to starting work in an area, we identify potential sites of cultural significance using a cultural heritage identification process. Additionally, we leverage relevant studies to deepen the knowledge among our workforce and provide training to our construction and field contractor personnel on managing cultural heritage challenges. Our objective is to preserve cultural sites and artifacts appropriately. Land use and resettlement ExxonMobil employs practices and policies to respect property rights in the locations where we operate, and we pay particular attention to those areas populated by indigenous peoples. Whenever land is necessary for projects, we adhere to applicable host-country regulatory requirements that govern land acquisition. If projects are externally financed, we also comply with land use, access and resettlement requirements stipulated by the lender(s). Additionally, consistent with the 2012 IFC Performance Standards, when working on traditional lands, we endeavor to obtain the free, prior and informed consent of indigenous peoples before initiating significant development activities. We understand that community members often have concerns about how our activities may affect their land and way of life. When managing land-use-related impacts, we aim to minimize involuntary resettlement through a disciplined multi.dimensional site selection process. Several potential locations are typically assessed based on technical criteria such as availability, accessibility, safety, security and constructability, as well as environmental and social considerations. All of 2015 community investments 2015 community investments these factors are then evaluated and locations are ranked to determine the lowest-risk options. There are several cases by focus area1 by geographic region2 where we have rerouted infrastructure or chosen an alternative site for a facility to address resettlement-related concerns. When physical or economic displacement is unavoidable, we seek to ensure the restoration of the livelihoods of displaced persons by developing and implementing location-specific resettlement action plans that are informed by consultations with landowners as well as surveying and mapping of housing structures, gardens, wildlife, natural products, harvesting areas and other assets. Assessment teams also identify resettled individuals or groups who may be more affected by the displacement than others. When appropriate, we closely monitor these individuals or groups and assign them to priority resettlement assistance programs. ExxonMobil was not involved in the resettlement of any individuals in 2015. We did, however, complete our resettlement and livelihood restoration process in Papua New Guinea (PNG), including a two-year monitoring process. The project conducted internal outcome evaluation for both standard of living and livelihood restoration of affected households. This program, which was a lender requirement and part of the ESHMP for the PNG liquified natural gas project, was well-defined, well-communicated and well-managed. Closeout was achieved via a formal audit by the lenders, and ExxonMobil was commended for its overall performance and management of the program. Strategic community investments ExxonMobil strives to be a good corporate citizen by working with governments, engaging with stakeholders and partnering with local and international organizations to help enhance the quality of life in the communities where we operate around the world. Whether through the U.S.-based ExxonMobil Foundation, the corporation or international affiliated company operations, we strategically invest in long-term social programs that directly impact our business and align with a host country’s economic and social goals. In 2015, we contributed $268 million to communities around the world. Millions of dollars $4 Arts and culture Civic and community Employee and retiree giving $83 $40 Women Other education$11 $6Public policy research Health $8 $24 Environment $4$32 United appeals and workplace giving $7 Higher education $49 ExxonMobil seeks to make meaningful community investments in a variety of focus areas. In 2015, total community investments were $268 million, with the greatest investment in civic and community initiatives. 1Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our  divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. Investments do not include environmental capital and operating expenditures, which totaled approximately $5.6 billion in 2015. We focus the majority of our spending on our corporate-led signature initiatives: improving education, combating malaria and advancing economic opportunities for women. We concentrate on these three areas because we believe they help build a foundation for human progress. In addition to our signature initiatives, we provide local invest.ments tailored to address community-specific social and eco.nomic challenges such as workforce development, access to health care and natural disaster recovery support. We consider the development goals of each community when deciding where, when and how best to invest. Millions of dollars United States $145 Asia Pacific $15 Latin America $2 Europe/Caspian $55 ExxonMobil's community investments span across the many geographic regions in which we operate. In 2015, we invested a total of $268 million in communities around the world. 2Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our  divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and   employee giving programs. One example of our local investment efforts in 2015 included the completion of a three-year community health center restoration project in Batete, Equatorial Guinea. This community-specific investment by ExxonMobil affiliate Mobil Equatorial Guinea Inc. is designed to provide local community members with access to the latest medical equipment and a full-time doctor on site. The health center in Equatorial Guinea supports around 3,000 residents in Batete and its surrounding villages. Members of the Batete community are already experiencing the benefits of the ExxonMobil-funded improved health care services. Just two weeks after the center was completed, the first baby was successfully delivered in the facility under enhanced hygienic conditions. Additional information on our community-specific investments can be found on the global stories section of our website. “Batete is a good example of our community investment philosophy — how we not only prioritize large urban communities, but also rural areas of the country.” David Findley Lead country manager, Mobil Equatorial Guinea Inc. Global stories To help understand the impact of our strategic community investment program and maximize the long-term sustainability and benefits of our efforts, we work in close collaboration with our partners to design and implement robust measurement and evaluation plans. We also conduct Up Close: The Teach For All Global STEM Initiative Science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) skills are critical to ensuring today’s students are prepared for the jobs of the 21st century. At ExxonMobil, we believe we can have the greatest impact on education by helping train highly qualified teachers in math and science, encouraging students from all backgrounds to pursue math and science, and preparing students for STEM-related college degrees and careers. For more than a decade, we have focused our education initiatives on a variety of programs that help address the STEM challenge. The ExxonMobil Foundation is the founding partner of Teach For All’s Global STEM Initiative. The Initiative, launched with our support in 2015, has enabled Teach For All to help its nearly 40 partner organizations improve their recruitment, training, placement and support of STEM teachers across the network. The goal of the program is to increase the number and impact of STEM teachers around the world, including in Argentina, Colombia and Mexico. The initiative will also help Teach For All support network partner alumni who are leaders in STEM fields. With funding from ExxonMobil, Teach For All has started prioritizing STEM education as part of their teacher recruitment, placement and development initiatives around the world. For example, nearly three-fourths of Teach For Qatar participants teach STEM subjects, as well as more than one-third of Ense por Argentina and Ense por México participants. Additionally, Teach For Sweden directs nearly 100 percent of its teacher participants toward STEM subjects, while Teach First United Kingdom has increased the number of teachers it assigns into STEM subjects by almost 50 percent over the past five years. “We are thrilled to have ExxonMobil join our global effort for educational and social equity. This important collaboration will give the students we serve a chance to learn the STEM skills they will need to solve the global challenges of the future, as well as improve their daily lives.” Wendy Kopp Co-founder and CEO, Teach For All research intended to contribute to the broader fields in which we invest. For example, in 2015, we made efforts to identify a set of common metrics that enable community In 2015, with the help of ExxonMobil, Teach For All also investment program implementers and supporters to measure began identifying network-wide best practices for STEM. the qualitative and quantitative impact of programs aimed Part of this effort involved expanding STEM-related data at providing economic opportunities for women. For the collection to include the number of participants that partners following examples, and wherever possible in this report, we place in STEM fields, as well as their targets for participant seek to describe the outcomes of our investments beyond placement in each subject area. The data collected from the dollars spent and activities conducted. 4,322 STEM teachers currently in the Teach For All network will offer valuable insights and serve as a reference point to further enhance the STEM Initiative. Teach For All is also administering student-perception surveys to 20 network partners to help assess teacher effectiveness. These surveys will help Teach For All better understand teacher impact on students so partner organizations can improve by reflecting on their teacher development efforts. Two young girls participate in the ExxonMobil Girls Engineering Festival at the Lonestar Convention Center in Conroe, Texas, in May 2015. Education initiative We believe global economic growth in today’s high-tech world relies upon highly skilled individuals, particularly those well-trained in STEM. In the United States alone, the U.S. Department of Commerce estimates that STEM occupations are projected to grow almost twice as fast as non-STEM-related occupations from 2008 to 2018. For this reason, we invest in education and teacher develop.ment programs designed to encourage students to pursue careers in the STEM fields. Over the past 16 years, we have contributed more than $1.2 billion to education programs around the world. In 2015, we invested nearly $100 million in education programs around the world. In 2015, ExxonMobil continued to support the Alaska Native Science and Engineering Program (ANSEP) through a two-week middle school academy program designed to help students learn and complete Algebra I curricula. During the middle school academy, participating students in grades five through eight explore engineering and science career options and complete a hands-on activity designed to help prepare them for post-secondary STEM curricula. As a result of the program, more than 75 percent of ANSEP students complete Algebra I by the end of the eighth grade, compared with just 26 percent of students nationwide. With the help of ExxonMobil, USAID collects blood samples for malaria tests at the Lucala municipal hospital in the Kwanza Norte province of Angola. Additionally, 95 percent of participating students advanced a full grade level in math or science for each summer they enrolled in the program. For more information on our efforts on education initiatives in 2015, see the Up Close on the previous page. Malaria initiative We care about the health of our employees, their families and members of the communities where we operate, which is why we invest in community health programs that help combat preventable or treatable illnesses. In several countries where we operate, including sub-Saharan Africa, malaria continues to have a significant impact on local communities. Each year, this preventable and treatable disease claims the lives of nearly half a million people. The good news, however, is that significant progress has been made in the global fight against malaria and the number of deaths and infections continues to decline. We believe ending deaths from malaria requires an integrated approach, including education, prevention and access to proper diagnosis and treatment. In 2015, ExxonMobil contributed $12.5 million to fight malaria. We are proud to say that 2015 marks ExxonMobil’s 15th anniversary year working to reduce the human and economic toll of this disease. These contributions have supported a variety of research, educational and treatment programs in countries and communities that lack adequate health care systems. To date, the antimalarial programs we have funded were able to reach more than 125 million people, and our support has resulted in the distribution of almost 14 million bed nets, 3.8 million doses of antimalarial treatments and 2.6 million rapid diagnostic kits, as well as the training of more than 520,000 health workers. Our cash grants during the past 15 years total more than $146 million, making us the largest private-sector grant-maker in the fight against malaria. For more information on our community malaria initiatives in 2015, see the Up Close on page 69. Women’s economic opportunity initiative Economically empowering women is essential to enhancing local economic development. According to a 2014 World Bank report, Gender at Work, women are key drivers of economic progress and development because they consistently invest in their children and communities. Women also tend to help propel other women forward, creating a powerful multiplier effect that benefits society as a whole. To promote economic opportunities for women, we invest in programs proven to provide the skills and resources needed to increase their productivity and income. Over the past 10 years, ExxonMobil has invested approximately $94 million for the purpose of helping women fulfill their economic potential and improve their well-being and that of their families and communities. Our investments focus on three key areas: supporting research to identify effective interventions; developing women farmers, entrepreneurs and business leaders; and improving women’s access to technology. Our support has reached tens of thousands of women in more than 90 countries. In 2015 alone, our contributions totaled nearly $12 million. See the adjacent Up Close and visit the ExxonMobil Foundation website for additional information on our efforts to improve women’s economic opportunities. ExxonMobil Foundation Employee participation Volunteering and charitable giving are integral to ExxonMobil’s culture. Around the world, our employees support local communities by becoming mentors to students, assisting local food banks and providing environmental education opportunities, among other activities. We encourage employees to contribute to the communities where they live and work by granting time off to volunteer with charitable organizations. Where applicable, ExxonMobil’s modified workweek program provides supervisors the flexibility to work with employees to adjust their work schedules to participate in such events. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s workplace flexibility programs, see page 28. ExxonMobil offers several programs that allow our employees and retirees to maximize their charitable impacts. Our volunteer involvement program encourages employees, retirees and their families to volunteer and contribute their time and talent to charitable organizations, either individually or in teams. In the United States, the program provides a $500 donation on their behalf for every 20 hours volunteered, up to four times per volunteer per year. Additionally, our educational matching gift program matches employee and retiree donations to U.S. higher education institutions at a ratio of 3-to-1. In 2014, 6,000 employees and retirees donated $19 million to nearly 4,000 colleges and universities, as well as minority scholarship programs — which the ExxonMobil Foundation then matched with $34 million in 2015. Up Close: Empowering women with access to mobile savings As part of ExxonMobil’s commitment to empowering women economically, the ExxonMobil Foundation joined forces in 2012 with the United Nations Foundation to produce A Roadmap for Promoting Women’s Economic Empowerment, a study outlining the most effective interventions to directly advance women’s economic opportunities. The Roadmap identified providing women access to savings opportunities through mobile phone technology as a high-potential community investment. To build on the research findings from the Roadmap, the ExxonMobil Foundation began collaborating with TechnoServe, Mercy Corps and the Center for Global Development (CGD) in 2015 to pilot mobile saving opportunities and financial literacy training for women entrepreneurs in Indonesia and Tanzania. A large number of women in Indonesia and Tanzania do not have access to banking and other financial services, live long distances from a bank branch or are deterred by burdensome bank fees and administrative requirements. This program, which runs through the end of 2016, will test the theory that women entrepreneurs and farmers with access to basic banking and insurance services through mobile telephones will be able to save more, invest their increased savings in their businesses and see increased income from those businesses. To streamline program efforts, TechnoServe and Mercy Corps are simulta.neously providing mobile savings access and financial literacy training to 3,000 women farmers and entrepreneurs in Indonesia and Tanzania. As part of our ongoing effort to evaluate program results and maximize positive outcomes, CGD is conducting a two-phase impact evaluation of the women entrepreneurs and farmers participating in the program. This evaluation will study the efficacy of the program and test the theory that access to mobile savings can increase business income. In 2015, key evaluation efforts included developing the initial surveys, piloting survey instruments and conducting preliminary research on methodologies for the pilot. Once approved, CGD will implement the study design and select a third-party organization to conduct the surveys in Tanzania and Indonesia. Local Tanzanian, Asia Diwala, applies the skills she learned from the enterprise development training she received through support from the ExxonMobil Foundation, Cherie Blair Foundation for Women and the Tanzania Gatsby Trust. In total, nearly 15,000 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and their families donated more than 629,000 volunteer hours to almost 5,000 charitable organizations in 34 countries in 2015. ExxonMobil 2015 Worldwide Giving Report Since our initial investment in pro bono legal services in 1917, ExxonMobil’s U.S. program has evolved from a grassroots effort to a fully defined program, and our attorneys give hundreds of people free legal support each year. In 2015, 171 volunteers in the United States, including 137 attorneys and 31 support staff, devoted 3,624 hours to pro bono service. These services included helping veterans, children, domestic violence survivors, immigrants and citizens with various legal issues, including family law matters, tax issues and will preparation. Our U.S. law management sponsors a pro bono committee in Houston that includes representatives from the various practice groups. The global stories section of our website has additional examples of our employee volunteerism activities around the world. “As lawyers, we have a duty to give a voice to those who don’t have one. It seems so simple to share something you already know, but it’s a big deal to the clients we help.” Susan Barrington Sanchez Co-coordinator of ExxonMobil’s pro bono committee, 2010–2015 Up Close: Fighting malaria in West Africa ExxonMobil has witnessed the devastating human and economic toll malaria takes on our workforce and the communities in which we operate. In 2015, we continued making progress in the fight against malaria in high-endemic African countries where we have operations — in particular Angola, Nigeria, Tanzania, Equatorial Guinea, Chad and Cameroon. Angola For 11 years, ExxonMobil has supported Africare, an NGO committed to finding solutions for health challenges, through its community-based malaria projects in Angola. This year, ExxonMobil helped Africare scale up its community-based malaria intervention program in Quipungo, Angola. This project focuses on the control and treatment of malaria for children and pregnant women with the following goals: • Ensuring 85 percent of pregnant women and children under the age of five sleep under long-lasting, insecticide-treated bed nets; • 85 percent of pregnant women and children under the age of five receive appropriate malaria treatment within 24 hours of exhibiting symptoms; • 85 percent of pregnant women receive two doses of malaria prophylaxis; and • Local nurses are trained in malaria prevention, management and treatment. In 2015, a network of 285 trained volunteers conducted 136,800 house visits focusing on these four international malaria control goals. Additionally, the ExxonMobil Foundation, in partnership with Africare, supports the Child Survival Collaborations and Resources (CORE) Group community malaria program in Angola. The CORE Group is a network of nonprofit international organizations committed to improving the health of women and children in high-risk malaria communities. Africare volunteers provide bed nets and malaria awareness training to local community members in Angola. In 2015, the CORE Group, working in 12 of the 16 provinces in the country, improved the health skills of more than 2,600 community volunteers, helped administer the first and second doses of malaria prophylaxis treatment for more than 35,000 pregnant women and disseminated key malaria messages to around 265,000 Angolan families. Nigeria, Tanzania and Equatorial Guinea For the past four years, the ExxonMobil Foundation has supported Grassroot Soccer (GRS), an NGO that educates local youth in Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea and Tanzania on how to prevent malaria, HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases. The program’s success stems from its community-based approach that uses soccer-based games and activities to engage and educate participants. As part of this community-based approach, GRS recruits high-profile Africans, such as national team soccer players and local celebrities, to become ambassadors for the program. Since 2012, ExxonMobil has invested nearly $2.3 million to expand the program to involve more than 63,000 boys and girls in Nigeria, nearly 10,000 in Tanzania and nearly 3,000 in Equatorial Guinea. In 2015, GRS was able to scale up its program in Equatorial Guinea by strengthening the organizational capacity of its national partners and working closely with the ministries of health and sport. More than 1,500 boys and girls graduated from the program in Equatorial Guinea in 2015. By the end of 2015, the total number of graduates supported by ExxonMobil was more than 76,000. With the help of ExxonMobil, GRS was also able to find new opportunities in 2015 to educate young people on malaria Children at the Federal Housing Estate Primary School in Lagos, Nigeria, participate in Grassroot Soccer s mosquito net education program. prevention. GRS and its local partner, Youth Empowerment and Development Initiative (YEDI), partnered with Special Olympics to launch SKILLZ for Life. This new program uses the organization’s proven model for behavior change in public health among youth to educate children with intellectual disabilities. As part of the new partnership, YEDI and Special Olympics collaborated with GRS to offer malaria testing on World Malaria Day, which involved more than 2,600 attendees, including many families and individuals with intellectual disabilities. Chad and Cameroon For the past nine years, ExxonMobil has supported Jhpiego, an affiliate of Johns Hopkins University, in its efforts to fight malaria using global best practices in disease prevention and treatment. In 2015, the ExxonMobil Foundation provided funding to Jhpiego to provide quality malaria prevention and treatment for more than 700,000 people living along ExxonMobil’s 1,070-kilometer Chad-Cameroon pipeline. Key activities included enhancing the quality and range of malaria-specific services for women in the parts of Chad and Cameroon where basic health care is limited; providing health education tailored to pregnant women; and procuring malaria prevention commodities like bed nets and anti-malarial drugs to ensure clinics in these areas are appropriately stocked. In 2015, the program was responsible for training 150 health providers and 30 supervisors to better oversee and provide malaria prevention and treatment services, as well as helping 159 community health volunteers educate communities about malaria at 71 health facilities. “For decades, malaria seemed to have the upper hand, claiming the lives of countless women and their families. But today, with leadership from governments and innovative partnerships like the one Jhpiego is privileged to have with the ExxonMobil Foundation in Chad and Cameroon — countries where few are willing to invest resources — we are seeing real progress in ending deaths from this preventable and treatable disease. As Jhpiego’s longest-standing corporate partner, ExxonMobil has been an incredible colleague in our fight to improve the health of vulnerable populations in low-resource countries. Their flexibility, commitment to data-driven impact and willingness to tackle new challenges head-on inspires us to push the envelope of what is considered possible and save lives.” Leslie Mancuso President and CEO, Jhpiego Case Study New country entry in Guyana for the Upstream business Kaieteur Falls in Guyana, located on the northern mainland of South America. When ExxonMobil discovers new resources in countries where we do not have a significant footprint, we take a diligent, respectful approach to starting activities. This is the case for our new operations in Guyana. In May 2015, ExxonMobil announced an oil and gas discovery in the Stabroek block, located approximately 120 miles offshore Guyana. This marks the first significant discovery for the country. We initiated oil and gas exploration activities in Guyana in 2008, collecting and evaluating substantial 2-D and 3-D seismic data that led to the company safely drilling its first exploration well. ExxonMobil works in many countries around the world and in a range of physical and socioeconomic environments, including regions with established industry presence and those where oil and gas is a newly emerging sector. Every.where we work, we are committed to conducting business in a manner that is compatible with the environmental and economic needs of the communities in which we operate. We work in ways that protect the safety, security and health of our workers, our customers and the public. Environmental, regulatory and socioeconomic considerations Guyana is an example of the collaborative and thoughtful approach we take when entering a new country. Before drilling the first well, we engaged the Guyanese government, communities and environmental and socioeconomic experts to gain an understanding of the potential interactions and impacts of our activities with the environment and communities surrounding our operations. Our early engagement included consultations with key government agencies and stakeholders, including the general public, industry associations and non-governmental organizations. We worked closely with these stakeholders to identify and address potential impacts in our plans and develop appropriate protective measures. For example, engagement with the local community was instrumental in conducting coastal sensitivity mapping. This mapping included environmental and socioeconomic features along the Guyana coast, such as locations of coastal communities, farms, fisheries and other sensitive areas. The effort also supports emergency response planning through identification of coastal access points and priority protection areas. “Our studies found a high level of biodiversity that included potential for the presence of dozens of marine mammals, several kinds of sea turtles and sensitive habitats with three kinds of mangrove species. The northwest coast also includes Shell Beach, a protected area known to be a valuable turtle nesting habitat. Project plans take into account proximity to densely populated communities, commercial and artisanal fishing, public health and safety, cultural heritage sites and Amerindian indigenous populations. All of these areas were considered prior to beginning any drilling activities.” Kari Ehmling Environmental, regulatory and socioeconomic advisor Engaging with the Guyanese government ExxonMobil’s commitment to responsible development extends beyond our own operations. We are also committed to supporting Guyana in its effort to achieve sustainable environmental, social and economic development. To this end, we are working with a number of government agencies to understand stakeholder priorities and objectives for industry growth, including a vision for responsible industry oversight and regulation. ExxonMobil, in collaboration with the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission and the Guyana Environmental Protection Agency, has launched a technical workshop series covering topics such as oil and gas development, globally recognized best practices, international standards and environmental management technologies. Early engagement and continuous open dialogue have helped foster mutual understanding and effective relationships. Touchau, a village leader, and teachers of the indigenous Mainstay-Whyaka Amerindian Reservation receive training in STEM subjects through the Youth Challenge Guyana program. Engaging with local communities Before beginning exploration activities in a new country, ExxonMobil endeavors to establish meaningful relationships that benefit communities and the company for the long term. Based on consultation with stakeholders and an initial community needs assessment, our early entry support in Guyana primarily focused on promoting education, especially in the areas of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). Since 2012, we have supported the Volunteer Youth Corps, a nonprofit organization in Georgetown that engages ninth- and tenth-grade students in a variety of STEM after-school learning programs. The programs include practical lessons in physics, chemistry, integrated science and information technology, as well as a three-day science camp at a local environmental facility. For the past four years, we have also supported Youth Challenge Guyana, which provides STEM education training to teachers and science kits to primary school students. In 2015, we expanded our education support to include a sports, literacy and leadership program in a traditionally Amerindian community as well as teacher training for a special needs school in Georgetown. We are still in the early stages of our exploration in Guyana, and will continue to evolve and tailor our support for the community to reflect the needs and long-term goals of the Guyanese people, as learned through our ongoing community engagement. Local workforce and supplier development Our vision of sustainability in Guyana is one in which stakeholders benefit from resource development today, while protecting and building opportunities for the future. To realize this vision, ExxonMobil will continue to safeguard people and the environment, support government endeavors to be responsible stewards of their natural and economic resources and invest in the community of which we have become a member. Everywhere we operate, we strive to develop employment opportunities for local workers and suppliers. Our local office in Guyana is staffed by more than 40 nationals performing work in various disciplines including accounting, office administration, procurement, public and government affairs, and security, safety, health and environment. ExxonMobil is working with local businesses to help identify opportunities to develop local service providers and a skilled workforce. As we study the commercial viability of the discovered resource and build our presence in Guyana, we remain committed to responsible corporate citizenship by engaging with the local government and communities, evaluating and developing a local workforce and supplier base, and protecting biodiversity by implementing responsible environmental standards and sound management practices. 