Environmental performanceManaging environmental performanceWe comply with all applicable regulatory requirements and, where there are none on a particular issue, we follow relevant risk-based standards that protect the environment. Our facilities are designed, operated and managed with the goal of mitigating adverse environmental impacts. Our management approach is guided by an in-depth scientific understanding of the environmental impacts of our operations and a commitment to develop, maintain and operate projects and decommission assets using appropriate standards. We work to continually improve our performance and look to new and existing technologies to enhance our operations. In 2017, we maintained strong performance across our key environmental focus areas:  Biodiversity In 2017, ExxonMobil contributed approximately $3 million to organizations focused on biodiversity protection and land conservation. To protect particular species and sensitive habitats, we take steps such as modifying engineering design and enhancing wildlife habitats 
at our properties. Water management Our net freshwater consumption at our operations was 300 million cubic meters in 2017. This represents about a 20 percent decline since 2011, in part due to the development and implementation of local water management strategies.In our Upstream onshore operations, water consumption is primarily associated with hydraulic fracturing, which uses water pressure to create small cracks or fissures in rocks deep underground so that oil or natural gas can flow to the well. The industry has more than 60 years of experience with the technique.We continuously work to improve our understanding of our water consumption, including when, where and how much. Using the latest version of a water tool developed by IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, we identified that almost 37 percent of our major operating sites are in areas with the potential for water scarcity. Therefore, we pursue site-specific management strategies such as the deployment 
of water conservation technologies, the use of alternative water sources, recycling of municipal and industrial wastewater, substitution with lower-quality water sources and harvesting of rainwater.Spill performance and prevention ExxonMobil is committed to the prevention and elimination of spills from our operations. 
We have the industry’s only dedicated, in-house oil spill response research program. If a spill does occur, we ensure a rapid, comprehensive response to minimize impact on communities and the environment.We reported our best-ever performance for number of spills in 2017. We had 7 percent fewer than 2016. Since 2011, ExxonMobil has reduced the absolute number of spills greater than 1 barrel by more than 55 percent across our global operations. The total volume of hydrocarbons spilled on soil and water was 6,900 barrels in 2017, and more than 65 percent was recovered 
at the spill sites. The majority of these spills did not affect third parties or nearby communities. Air emissions ExxonMobil is committed to doing our part to contribute to cleaner air in the communities where we operate. Our combined emissions of volatile organic compounds, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides have decreased by almost 31 percent over the past 10 years across all our businesses. New air measurement technologies are making it easier to monitor ambient air at our Downstream facilities in the United States and Canada. Data collected around the perimeter of our facilities is publicly available to local communities.Decommissioning and rehabilitation We are committed to sustainably managing our surplus properties. In 2017, ExxonMobil Environmental Services monitored about 4,000 active remediation sites in more than 30 countries.A significant number of our Upstream locations are located offshore. To effectively manage offshore operations, we use a systematic decommissioning process that varies depending on the type of structure and unique characteristics of a specific site. ExxonMobil created an offshore decommissioning center of expertise in 2015 that is responsible for planning and managing the safe decommissioning of our assets.Seismicity ExxonMobil has a comprehensive risk management approach in place to limit induced seismicity from our operations by evaluating the relative risks associated with the specific geological and geographic context of a site.We work with academic and government researchers and regulatory agencies to share our knowledge and advanced approaches. For example, ExxonMobil and Stanford University jointly developed a software modeling tool to assess the potential risk of induced seismicity and made it freely available to government and industry. The tool is being used by regulatory agencies and energy companies to help reduce the risk of human-induced seismicity. Environmental management process+IdentifyEnvironmental and social aspectsConductEnvironmental and social 
risk assessmentEvaluateEnvironmental, social and regulatory settingsManage risksAvoid, reduce, remedyApplyEnvironmental and social aspectsMonitor & EvaluateEnvironmental performanceKaren Power, a production engineer, in front of ExxonMobil’s Hebron offshore platform off the coast of 
Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. Explore moreProtecting the endangered western 
gray whaleexxonmobil.com/westerngraywhaleReducing nitrate flow to the 
Mississippi Riverexxonmobil.com/nitrateflowmississippiDecommissioning the Sable offshore 
energy project exxonmobil.com/sableoffshoreenergyproject222017 Sustainability Report Highlights Community engagement and human rightsExxonMobil works in communities all over the world, each with its own unique cultures, needs and sensitivities. Identifying and mitigating potential negative social impacts is integral to developing long-term, positive relationships with these communities. At ExxonMobil, we aim to promote and respect human rights in all areas where we work. “In Angola, our key initiatives in women’s empowerment and malaria support the priorities of the government and local communities. Through strategic partnerships, a shared responsibility to sustainability and an aligned vision, we have a positive impact on communities where we operate.”Fernando Pegado
Public and government affairs manager, ExxonMobil AngolaAbove: In 2017, ExxonMobil partnered with the Youth Empowerment and Development Initiative to organize community events to raise awareness about malaria in Lagos, Nigeria as part of World Malaria Day. Community engagement and human rightsCommunity relationsUnderstanding and addressing the interests of communities where we operate is critical to maintaining a sustainable business. We engage with local communities through a variety of communication channels — including open houses, community discussions and individual meetings — to provide opportunities for dialogue with interested stakeholders. ExxonMobil creates grievance reporting mechanisms that provide opportunities for local citizens and communities to raise concerns.
Respecting human rightsWe believe our business presence can and should have a positive influence on the people in the communities in which we operate. ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights as a fundamental principle in our operations, implemented through training and the application of our internal policies and practices. The company’s practices and operations reflect the spirit and intent of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2017, ExxonMobil’s supplier, vendor and contractor expectations became part of an annual letter we send to our suppliers. These expectations include references to key international human rights frameworks such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.We participate in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, an initiative that provides guidance to extractive companies on human rights risk assessments relating to the safeguarding of company operations or facilities. Engaging and training host government and private security on the Voluntary Principles is key to reducing human rights risks in certain communities. In 2017, more than 5,000 host government security and ExxonMobil-contracted security personnel were trained on the Voluntary Principles across 12 higher-risk countries.
Investing in our communitiesExxonMobil collaborates with governments and other stakeholders to invest in community development programs where we operate. We work with local stakeholders to ensure that our efforts are tailored to address community and business needs, such as access to skills training and health care, support for disaster relief, education initiatives and economic development. In 2017, we contributed $204 million to communities around the world. The ExxonMobil Foundation collaborated with Mercy Corps, Technoserve and the Center for Global Development to measure the effect of mobile banking in empowering women economically.Community engagement and human rights2017 community investmentsExxonMobil provides investments to benefit many communities around the world. By focus area*By geographic region*$62M  Civic and community$43M  Employee and retiree giving$42M  Higher education$17M  Health and environment$15M  Pre-college education$8M  Women$6M  Public policy research$5M  United appeals and workplace giving$3M  Other education$3M  Arts and culture$204MWorldwide total$9MCanada$4MLatin America$125MUnited States$28MEurope and Caspian$25MAfrica and 
Middle East$13MAsia Pacific*Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. Investments do not include environmental capital and operating expenditures.Explore moreManaging community grievances 
in Indonesiaexxonmobil.com/indonesiacommunitygrievancesEmpowering women through access to mobile savingsexxonmobil.com/empoweringwomenmobilesavingsSupporting the Educate A Child initiativeexxonmobil.com/educateachildHelping communities combat malaria exxonmobil.com/combatmalaria2017 Sustainability Report Highlights25Local development and supply chain managementLocal content — the added economic and social value created by direct and indirect employment of local people through activities of the oil and gas industry — provides value to ExxonMobil and to communities. We aim to develop mutually beneficial relationships with local businesses throughout our supply chain. “It is critical that ExxonMobil be a valued contributor to the Guyanese economy and trusted member of the community. Helping establish ExxonMobil as a responsible partner and supporting capacity building of Guyanese suppliers for decades to come are important priorities as we continue our work.”Rod Henson
Lead country manager, Exxon Mobil GuyanaAbove: A construction site team in Indonesia.Local development and supply chain managementLocal developmentA successful local development program requires a long-term perspective with clearly defined and consistently applied management processes. Our approach focuses on three key areas: employing and training a local workforce, supporting local suppliers and improving livelihoods of community members through local community investments.We provide locally hired individuals with opportunities to develop technical and leadership 
skills that will benefit them throughout their careers with ExxonMobil, and with future employers. With about 60 percent of our employees located outside the United States, local hiring ensures that our workforce remains culturally diverse and representative of the countries where we operate. As illustrated to the right, we continued to make progress in local hiring 
and training in 2017.
Supply chain managementWe work to source goods from local suppliers. In 2017, ExxonMobil made payments to more than 100,000 suppliers of goods and services worldwide. We have developed a set of best practices to help ensure our company consistently engages with local and diverse suppliers. These practices include supplier forums, local supplier databases and local enterprise centers for business development and training. For example, we have established a Centre for Local Business Development and supplier registration portal to support identification and training of Guyanese suppliers for our new development in Guyana. A similar example, in Papua New Guinea, has supported nearly 19,000 local entrepreneurs.In addition, we cultivate long-lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with diverse suppliers to contribute to the economic development of historically underrepresented groups. In 2017, we exceeded our target with a total of $1.9 billion in spending with diverse suppliers in the United States. Our supplier diversity program continues to expand internationally. In 2017, we spent $186 million with women-owned and indigenous-owned businesses outside the United States. We continue to work with the nonprofit WEConnect International, a global network that connects women-owned businesses to qualified buyers, to increase the participation of 
women-owned businesses in our supply chain. In addition to compiling an international database of women-owned businesses used by ExxonMobil, WEConnect identifies, educates and certifies women’s business enterprises based outside of the United States that are at least 51 percent owned, managed and controlled by one or more women. In 2017, WEConnect International named ExxonMobil its Corporation of the Year in recognition of the company’s diverse supplier program. ExxonMobil’s vendors must agree to meet our robust safety, technical, environmental and human rights expectations and requirements. For existing agreements, a select number of suppliers are audited each year for contract compliance. Audit components include pricing, safety, and drug and alcohol policy compliance. A contractor who does not meet our expectations may be subject to supplemental training and contractual remedies, including termination.2017 local hiring statisticsPersonnel locally hired in supervisory or managerial positionsPersonnel locally hiredAngola64%86%  50% since 2013  6% since 2013Chad*95%87%  1% since 2014  25% since 2014Equatorial Guinea76%39%  6% since 2013  26% since 2013Indonesia89%95%  5% since 2013  14% since 2013Nigeria90%95%  4% since 2013  69% since 2013*Historic data since 2013 is not available for Chad. ExxonMobil began tracking local hiring in this country in 2014. Local development and supply chain managementExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers*Millions of dollars$6152008200920102011201220132014201520162017$887$841$1,068$1,001$1,024$1,108$1,064$1,442$1,902In 2017, we spent a total of $1.9 billion with diverse suppliers in the United States, an increase of more than 30 percent from 2016.*Includes direct ExxonMobil spending and that of our suppliers (Tier 2 spending). Total spending includes suppliers classified as minority-owned businesses; women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities.Explore moreExxonMobil begins production on 
new polyethylene line at Mont Belvieu plastics plantexxonmobil.com/montbelvieuplasticsplantPromoting sustainability throughout 
our supply chainexxonmobil.com/sustainabilitysupplychainExxonMobil supplier, vendor and contractor expectationsexxonmobil.com/suppliervendorcontractorexpectations