Environmental Performance hiGhLiGhts 0  6%  2600+  spills from owned  reduction in  hectares of  and long-term leased  combined NOx, VOCs,  protected wildlife  marine vessels  and SO2 emissions  habitat added  perforMance overview  what we said in 2009 • re emphasize spill prevention mea sures to restore our improvement trend • introduce the Corporate Environmental Data Management System, a computer based system to improve data integrity and analysis capability • expand application of Project Environmental Standards across the corporation • expand the number of facilities par ticipating in wildlife habitat enhancement and conservation programs what we did in 2010 • Led an industry effort to engineer and construct a well containment system in response to the deepwater horizon incident • focused spill prevention efforts on human factors and the sites with the highest spill rates in recent years • began upgrading site systems to improve environmental data management • adopted the Expectations for Project Environmental Standards • achieved our 70 percent air emissions reduction goal from u.s. refining facilities from 2000 baseline levels two years early • developed a database to better under stand water resources and biodiversity sensitivity worldwide what we plan to do • evaluate and implement lessons learned from the deepwater horizon incident • focus on infrastructure upgrades and special programs at the sites with the highest spill rates • study practices to minimize waste gen eration and increase re use and recycling in our Lubricants and specialties business • work to certify remediated sites as protected wildlife habitat and conserva tion areas 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 25 As one of the leading petroleum and natural gas companies, ExxonMobil takes our environmental responsibilities very seriously. The Deepwater Horizon incident was a tragic event that reminded our entire industry of the need to be ever-vigilant in the areas of safety and environmental protection. To produce energy responsibly, we must understand and actively manage environmental risks and relentlessly focus on operational Managing to reduce environmental impacts Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS, see page 18) provides a systematic and disciplined approach to man.aging safety, security, health, environmental, and social risks. OIMS is consistent with the standard for environmental management systems established by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO 14001:2004). Together, our Corporate Environment Policy and OIMS Framework set an expectation that all projects will be developed, constructed, maintained, and operated using appropriate standards— including where regulations are not adequately protective of the environment. Our Protect Tomorrow. Today. initiative outlines our expectations for each business to deliver superior environmental perfor.mance, drive environmental incidents with real impact to zero, and achieve industry-leading performance in focus areas of importance to each business. Progress toward these goals is managed through our Environmental Business Planning (EBP) process, which integrates environmental improvement into overall busi.ness plans and strategies. The businesses use EBP to identify key environmental drivers, set targets in high-priority focus areas, and identify actions to achieve these targets. A life cycle approach to environmental protection Life cycle thinking contributes to managing the full range of potential environmental and social impacts associated with our operations and products. We take a holistic approach to understanding our impacts from initial explo.ration activities to eventual closure. Assessing our surroundings Delivering superior environmental perfor.mance starts with planning. For new projects, risk-based Environmental, Socioeconomic, excellence. and Health Impact Assessments (ESHIAs) are conducted to review community concerns, sensitive environmental habitats, land use, air quality, water management, waste manage.ment, biodiversity, noise, public health, and future regulatory developments. The ESHIA process requires engagement with key stake.holders throughout the project’s life cycle. The results, which include opportunities for avoiding, reducing, and mitigating potentially negative impacts as well as enhancing project benefits, are integrated into project evaluation, planning, and decision making. Early identification of potential impacts allows us to develop project alternatives, reduce impacts to the environment, improve safety, and decrease operating costs. protecting biodiversity. We recognize that protecting biodiversity—the variety and complexity of life—is an important conserva.tion issue that presents broad challenges. We successfully operate in sensitive areas by implementing scientifically sound, practical, and sustainable solutions rooted in environmental aspects assessment and risk management. These processes recognize a variety of factors such as rarity, vulnerability, and cultural value of biodiversity and ecosystems. These factors determine the levels of risk associated with our operations and appropriate actions to manage those risks. To protect particular species and sensitive habitats, we take steps such as modifying engineering design, construction, and operating practices, and enhancing wildlife habitats at our properties. We also support advocacy, research, and partnerships to protect biodiversity outside our fence line. In 2010, we screened our sites against databases of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and World Protected Areas (WPA). We are currently uti.lizing this information to identify opportunities for enhancing measures to protect biodiver.sity at major facilities or project sites in the immediate vicinity of these areas. Gathering and analyzing sound environ.mental data is an important aspect of our assessment process. We continue to work with the United Nations World Conservation Monitoring Centre (WCMC) to develop a comprehensive database for worldwide environmental conservation. In 2010, we also partnered with NatureServe and National Geographic to improve a mapping tool that lists threatened and endangered species as well as ecological system descriptions in the United States. The enhancements will allow users, including ExxonMobil, to better identify and evaluate the potential conservation value of land across the United States. In Qatar’s Ras Laffan liquefied natural gas operation, water treated with trace amounts of chlorine must be used in the process of cooling gas to liquid. ExxonMobil Research Qatar conducted an environmental research project studying coastal water quality near Ras Laffan Industrial City. The two-year research project concluded that the very low concentrations of chlorination by-products associated with Ras Laffan cooling water discharges do not pose a risk to marine life. A report of the study was shared with the Qatari Ministry of the Environment as part of our ongoing engagement in the Gulf Region. ExxonMobil’s 14 sites with Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) certification increased the number of hectares actively managed for wildlife from 140 in 2009 to more than 2600 in 2010. We have also identified additional sites for future WHC certification. In 2010, ExxonMobil contributed more than $3 million to organizations dedicated to bio.diversity and land conservation. For example, in a unique partnership with the scientific community, the Angolan government, and the private sector, ExxonMobil and the Block 15 consortium contributed more than $1 million between 2008 and 2010 to support efforts to protect the critically endangered Angolan Giant Black Sable antelope. The funding enabled the conservation program to relocate nine females and one male to a 400-hectare sanctu.ary within the Cangandala National Park. The sanctuary increases breeding opportunities and in 2010 led to the birth of two offspring. Designing our facilities and operations ExxonMobil integrates environmental con.cerns and regulatory requirements early in the project design process, as part of the ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS). Potential risks are ana.lyzed for avoidance and reduction options, and practical alternatives are included from the start. We comply with all applicable host-country regulatory requirements and, where there are none, we perform to standards that are protective of the environment. 26 exxonmobil.com In 2010, we implemented Expectations for Project Environmental Standards to establish a consistent approach across the Corporation. Each business is expected to develop, maintain, and consistently apply Project Environmental Standards applicable to the specific risks of that business. The businesses are now developing applicable Standards, and this effort will be completed by year-end 2013. For example, the ExxonMobil Development Company’s Environmental Standards set the basis for responsible environmental development of upstream projects, includ.ing in regions of the world that do not have comprehensive environmental protection requirements. These project Environmental Standards include: • Air emissions (sulfur dioxide (SO2), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and particulate matter); • Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions; • Drill cuttings discharge, water manage.ment, waste management, and land use; • Flare and venting; • Energy efficiency and greenhouse gases (GHGs); • Marine geophysical operations; and, • Socioeconomic impacts. Through the Expectations for Project Environmental Standards initiative, these Standards are being implemented across all upstream companies. To date, the Standards for drill cuttings discharge, flare and vent reduction, and energy efficiency and GHGs have been adopted by all upstream companies. Operating with integrity OIMS outlines our approach to communicat.ing expectations, measuring progress, and striving to improve environmental perfor.mance. Our Environment Policy encourages concern and respect for the environment and emphasizes every employee’s responsibility for environmental performance. Employees are expected to actively prevent environ.mental incidents, and to respond quickly and effectively when incidents occur. assessing our surroundings in papua new Guinea The Papua New Guinea (PNG) liquefied natural gas (LNG) project is an integrated development that includes gas production and processing facilities in the Southern Highlands and Western Provinces of Papua New Guinea, connected by more than 700 kilometers of pipelines. Papua New Guinea is one of the least explored countries on earth, largely due to its rugged, mountainous terrain and dense vegetation. It is also a nation of rich biodiversity and distinctive cultures of people who are closely linked to the natural environment. This environment, as well as the complexity, scale, and scope of the project, make it one of the most challenging projects ever undertaken in our industry. Our goal is to develop and operate the PNG LNG project in a way that protects Papua New Guinea’s natural and social environ.ments while helping to bring economic benefits to its citizens. This will require proven technology and experts, use of ExxonMobil management systems such as OIMS, and extensive engagement and involvement of local communities. In such a unique location, impact assess.ments are a critical part of project design, construction, and operation. In 2009, the PNG LNG Project Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) was submitted to and approved by the government as part of the project permitting process. The EIS describes the biophysical and social environment and builds on work completed over the past 20 years by the petroleum industry. Altogether, there have been 5700 social surveys involving more than 24,000 interviews with local people, representing more than 40 percent of all households in the project area. In addition, biodiversity studies were undertaken for 78 sites, which produced nearly 4000 records for fauna species alone and identified more than a thousand species of plants. Overall, some 80 species of vertebrate fauna and higher plants that were new to science have been identified. The EIS was an initial step in the development of our environmental and social management processes. The project’s Environment Permit requires more detailed analyses to identify site-specific sensitivities and mitigation practices prior to facility and infrastructure construction, including the pipeline route and associated project footprint. Pre-construction surveys identify poten.tial impacts of construction activities on community infrastructure as well as environmental and social sensitivities. They address concerns related to archaeology, cultural heritage, ecology, invasive species, and water quality. The resulting constraint maps, including mitigation options and recommendations to reduce impacts to communities and the environment, support decision making across all project locations. Sensitivities identified are managed through mitigation measures originally detailed in the EIS and further refined in the Environmental and Social Management Plans and pre.construction surveys. To date, pre-construction surveys and reports have been finalized for 95 sites, and third-party experts have identified more than 1400 mitiga.tion measures aimed at, for example: • Avoiding particularly sensitive ecological features; • Minimizing vegetation clearance and overall project footprint; • Preventing the introduction and spread of weeds and animal pests; • Controlling erosion and sedimentation and resulting impacts on water quality; • Promptly reinstating and stabilizing banks following construction of river crossings; • Controlling access to new project roads; • Using timber from approved sources only; • Handling, treating, and disposing of project solid wastes and wastewaters properly; and, • Minimizing noise from construction and operations. The ability to efficiently collect and manage environmental information is essential for achieving compliance and improving per.formance. In 2010, we implemented the first of a two-phase project to systematize and improve our environmental data information collection system. Phase one, referred to as C-EDMS, was successfully implemented across the Corporation in 2010. Phase two, S-EDMS, will be rolled out to sites and inte.grated with existing emissions monitoring and measurement systems from 2011 to 2017. spill prevention. Spill prevention is of utmost importance to protect human health and the environment. ExxonMobil’s operations integ.rity requirements seek to prevent spills by strengthening procedures, building in layers of protection, inspecting and maintaining equipment, training operators, and conducting tests and drills. Marine vessel spill performance. For more than four years, vessels owned and operated by our marine affiliates have safely trans.ported all cargoes without any spills to water greater than 1 barrel. In addition, it has been more than three years since the last spill from a barge, and there were no spills from long.term chartered ships in 2010. We attribute this performance in part to the rigorous and systematic screening process used by our marine affiliates to examine hundreds of technical, operational, and other noncommercial factors. The people and processes involved in our marine activities are dedicated to continuous efforts to improve safety and environmental performance. Marine well containment system Unfortunately, one single-voyage chartered vessel experienced a spill in 2010 in Texas. ExxonMobil actively monitored the ship owner’s spill response and subsequent investigations. Other spill performance. In 2010, the total volume of hydrocarbons spilled to land or water was about 8 thousand barrels, 60 percent of which was recovered at the site of the spill. The number of nonmarine hydro.carbon spills greater than 1 barrel in 2010 was 25 percent lower than in 2006 and 11 percent lower than 2009. In 2009, we did not meet our expectation of continued improvement of our spill performance. In 2010, we increased emphasis on spill prevention and re-established our improvement trend. After thorough analysis, we focused our effort on human behaviors that contribute to spills globally. Implementation of the Global Human Factors Best Practice Guide is intended to instill a zero-spill mindset throughout the organization. The Guide outlines 17 high-risk elements and corresponding procedures to reduce the likelihood of a human factor oil spill. In addition, we focused on achieving improvements at the refining sites with the highest spill rates over the last several years. A comprehensive improvement strategy was developed, which included root-cause analy.sis, targeted equipment upgrades, enhanced risk mitigation through selective inspections, and improved recordkeeping. In the Upstream, we implemented oil spill prevention initiatives by establishing teams to address issues common to multiple areas and to standardize prevention practices by enhancing personnel training and by improving surveillance techniques for early identification of spill risks. 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 27 Marine Vessel Spills (Owned and Long-Term Leased) Number of hydrocarbon spills less than 1 barrel * This spill was from a long-term leased vessel. 07 3 08 09* 1 10 Other Spills (Not from Marine Vessels) Number of oil, chemical, and drilling fluid spills greater than 1 barrel  Spills to water  Spills to soil  07  253  08  211  09  242  10  210  Today, deepwater production accounts for more than 5 percent of worldwide liquids supply, up from only 1 percent a decade ago. Ensuring this valuable resource is available to consumers means that the oil and gas indus.try must work more diligently to prevent tragic incidents such as the 2010 Deepwater Horizon spill in the Gulf of Mexico. While ExxonMobil believes such incidents are preventable, we recognize the energy industry should have been better prepared to respond. That is why ExxonMobil is leading a multicompany effort to build a new rapid-response marine well containment system for the Gulf of Mexico. The system, involving a $1 billion initial com.mitment from the four sponsor companies, will provide pre-engineered, constructed, and tested containment technology and equipment to be deployed within 24 hours of a deepwater spill in the Gulf at depths up to 10,000 feet. This system builds on more than 40 years of internal oil spill response research. In recent years, we have spent between $2 million and $3 million per year on oil spill cleanup research, and we are conducting significant additional research in drilling and deepwater developments totaling more than $40 million per year. We are working with operators and national oil companies operating in other regions besides the Gulf of Mexico regarding the applicability of such systems. We support industry task forces under the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers and the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association in assessing global needs and solutions for well containment, as well as other innovative solutions for spill response and cleanup. ExxonMobil is also participating in joint industry task forces to: • Enhance drilling reliability; • Improve safety, health, and environmental performance; • Recommend improvements to equipment design, testing protocols, research and development, and regulations; and, • Protect public interests. Following our engagement with the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling, we will continue to seek lessons learned from the incident and integrate them into our own plans and operations. 28 exxonmobil.com Air Emissions (millions of metric tons) VOCs SO2 NOx 07 0.31 08 0.25 09 0.22 10 0.22 07 0.21 08 0.19 09 0.16 10 0.14 07 0.16 08 0.15 09 0.13 10 0.12 air emissions reductions. The use of fossil fuels releases VOCs, SO2, NOx, and par.ticulates, which can contribute to air quality issues since high concentrations of these compounds can impact human health and the environment. ExxonMobil is co-sponsoring an interdisciplinary five-year research program, coordinated by the Health Effects Institute, focused on determining which particle constit.uents impact health. Research findings will be used to develop more cost-effective emission control strategies targeting particles with the highest public health concern. The final results of the research should be available in 2013. In 2010, our combined air emissions of VOCs, SO2, and NOx decreased by 6 percent from 2009 and 36 percent from 2006 levels. By year-end 2010, our U.S. refining facilities reduced combined NOx and SO2 emissions by over 70 percent from 2000 levels. With these reductions, we achieved our 2012 commitment two years early. Since 2006, our global Chemical operations have been averaging a reduction per unit of production of 6 percent per year for VOCs and 3 percent per year for NOx. Greenhouse gas emissions are discussed in the Managing Climate Change Risks section of this report (see page 32). freshwater management. A reliable supply of water is essential for life and for develop.ing both fossil fuel and renewable sources of energy. With competing demands for water, regulations and international standards are growing more stringent. Protecting and preserving freshwater resources involves understanding supply and demand trends at the local level, assessing potential effects on quality and quantity, and implementing steps to appropriately address challenges. The prudent utilization of water resources, particularly freshwater resources, is a global issue that requires local understanding and action. In 2010, we used the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s water tool to identify regions where we operate that may have water scarcity concerns. Information on water stress and scarcity in the vicinity of our operations serves as an important element of environmental aspects assessment and risk management. Managing risks may include identifying and using alternate water supplies, reducing water use and increasing efficiency through technology, and considering external projects to address sustainability of supplies for all users of a particular water resource. In 2010, the net consumption of fresh water at our operations was 2140 million barrels, representing a 1-percent reduction from 2009. Sites across our operations in scarce or stressed areas implemented a variety of projects to reduce water consumption in 2010. For example, the Altona Refinery in Australia improved the control system in its cooling towers, resulting in a 3-percent reduction in freshwater consumption. waste management. ExxonMobil’s approach to waste management begins with reducing waste at its source, followed by re-using and recycling waste, and finally disposing of any remaining waste in compliance with local regulations. The amount of hazardous waste disposed in 2010 from our ongoing operations totaled 1.3 million metric tons. The majority of this volume,1.2 million metric tons, was produced water, which is typically not considered hazardous, but which has been classified as hazardous waste by one local authority. Excluding this, we re-used or recycled about 43 percent of the hazardous waste generated by our operations. dispersants enhance natural degradation of oil All marine environments contain naturally occurring microbes that feed on and break down crude oil. This means crude oil is largely biodegradable. Spilled oil tends to float on the surface of water in slicks. Treating a spill with dispersants allows very small droplets of oil to form, which then become distributed and diluted below the water’s surface. This enhances the access of microbes to the oil, thus increasing the rate of degradation. While the benefits of using dispersants have been questioned by stakeholders concerned about their chemical composi.tion, studies have shown that dispersants are less toxic than oil, and dispersed oil breaks down faster than undispersed oil. When used appropriately, modern disper.sants have low environmental and human health risk. For example, an Environment Canada study found a common dish soap to be 25 times more toxic to rainbow trout than a common dispersant. In its 2005 report on modern dispersants and associ.ated effects, the National Research Council stated that the toxicity of dispersed oil results primarily from the oil itself, and not from the dispersants. The dispersants developed by ExxonMobil contain ingredients that are used safely in a variety of consumer products, such as skin creams, cosmetics, and mouthwash. ExxonMobil continues to advance disper.sant technology and has developed a new dispersant gel that could further reduce concerns about adding chemicals to the environment. This new gel can treat the same amount of oil with two-thirds less chemical volume than other dispersants. If final product stability tests are successful, ExxonMobil expects commercialization of this new dispersant in 2011. In 2010, the Baton Rouge Chemical Plant in Louisiana reduced the amount of metal waste it disposed by more than 140 metric tons by identifying a recycling facility that could process nickel, molybdenum, and cobalt waste. Hazardous waste generated during site remediation activities varies from year to year due to the nature and timing of remediation and reclamation projects. In 2010, our reme.diation activities generated approximately 0.6 million metric tons of hazardous waste. environmental expenditures. Our worldwide environmental expenditures in 2010 totaled about $4.5 billion. This included about $1.9 billion in capital expenditures and about $2.6 billion in operating expenses. In 2010, 83 fines and settlements paid accounted for less than one-fourth of 1 percent of total environmental expendi.tures or about $11 million. Restoring the environment Remediation and restoration activities reduce our overall environmental impact. We have improved ExxonMobil’s remediation results through a globally consistent approach. site remediation. Created in 2007, the ExxonMobil Environmental Services (EMES) functional organization has established a systematic framework for remediating soil and groundwater at ExxonMobil affiliate facili.ties, inactive properties, and formerly owned sites around the world. Our ultimate goal is to enhance asset and community value while creating opportunities for beneficial re-use of inactive properties. One of the challenges posed by this work is determining how to characterize and measure progress of these projects. To this end, EMES has identified metrics to define and benchmark our progress. In 2010, EMES stewarded approximately 9000 active projects worldwide. Some sites require minimal to no remediation activity, while others pose longer-term challenges. 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 29 More than 6.5 million work hours were devoted to remediation and restoration activities, which included the disposition of more than 100 sites for beneficial re-use. phytoremediation technology. One method to effectively manage contamination is phy.toremediation, which employs vegetation for the in situ treatment of contaminants in soil and groundwater. Although phytoremediation is considered an emerging technology, many in the regulatory community have recognized it as an effective, economical, and environmen.tally sustainable method of site remediation. ExxonMobil is making progress in applying the appropriate use of this technology at several sites. For example, on a 30-hectare portion of a site in East Providence, Rhode Island, we planted more than 13,000 trees, shrubs, and native grasses in order to reduce contaminant leaching and to control erosion. Land conservation. Through our work with conservation organizations such as the Land Trust Alliance (LTA) and The Nature Conservancy, ExxonMobil continues to progress land conservation as a viable disposition option. Last year, we reported on remediation activi.ties at two former fuels storage terminal sites located on Long Island, New York, whose operations date back to the early 1900s. In 2010, ExxonMobil began developing plans to restore the coastal habitat within the boundaries of these properties. In partnership with the LTA, EMES is identifying local land trust candidates for potential stewardship of conservation easements on these two proper.ties. This approach would help to ensure the properties remain designated as conserva.tion land in perpetuity, thus protecting these natural resources from future development and providing community benefits including environmental education opportunities. On the Web: Marine well containment exxonmobil.com/MWCC Safety, health, and environment awards exxonmobil.com/awards improving supply chain sustainability ExxonMobil is working with our suppliers to identify sustainable alternatives through.out the supply chain. Our procurement organization’s Total System Cost approach is intended to identify and reduce waste and inefficiency in the supply chain. Additionally, our global sourcing strategy development process encourages the consideration of environmental performance when making sourcing decisions. Recent actions in our upstream opera.tions in Cameroon and Chad illustrate the benefits of Total System Cost efforts. An initiative to consolidate shipments into larger 40-foot containers rather than shipping many smaller-sized containers resulted in a 30-percent reduction in the total number of shipments, thereby reducing total fuel consumption and air emissions. Within our Chemical operations, direct deliv.eries of polyolefin products to customers in rail cars increased from 26 percent in 2005 to 43 percent in 2010. This decreased the number of trips to rail storage yards by more than 5000, reducing diesel fuel consumption by about 1.2 million liters per year—the equivalent of removing about 585 cars from U.S. roads. Our efforts to improve supply chains extend to our own products and deliveries as well. For example, we seek to fill truck.loads and optimize packaging to reduce the number of trips while providing associated fuel and cost savings. 30 exxonmobil.com Natural Gas: An Abundant, Cleaner-Burning Energy Solution The world faces multiple energy and environmental challenges. We must provide safe, reliable, affordable, and environmentally responsible supplies of energy in order to sustain and improve living standards for people worldwide. Given its abundance, affordability, and lower carbon profile, natural gas is already helping us to address these challenges. By 2030, we expect natural gas to surpass coal as the second-largest source of energy, behind oil. In our Outlook for Energy, we project natural gas will satisfy more than 25 percent of the world’s demand for energy in 2030, which represents about twice the amount used in 2000. This demand will be met through a major technological shift that has unlocked massive reserves in the United States and around the world. Powering a brighter, cleaner energy future A major use of natural gas is as a fuel to produce electricity. Increasing natural gas use in power generation presents a very cost-effective and large-scale option currently available to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Compared to coal-fired plants, natural gas-fired power plants can cut carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by up to 60 percent. In addi.tion, gas-fired plants significantly reduce particulate and waste generation, and virtu.ally eliminate mercury emissions, while also having low emissions of nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide. Another benefit of natural gas-fired power generation is that it is competitive without subsidies or mandates. Moreover, where gov.ernments adopt policies that make CO2 and other emissions more costly, natural gas will be even more competitive in the power gen.eration sector, as compared to coal. Installing carbon capture and storage technology could also further reduce emissions (see page 35). Hydraulic fracturing As the world’s largest public natural gas producer, ExxonMobil brings supplies of this cleaner-burning energy source to global markets in a safe, reliable, and responsible manner. As part of this under.taking, we engage with stakeholders on a range of topics related to natural gas production and transportation. With the rise of unconventional natural gas and oil production around the world, one topic garnering significant media and politi.cal attention is the industry-wide practice of hydraulic fracturing. Extracting natural gas from certain forma.tions, including shale, tight sandstones, and coal beds, requires drawing the resource through openings about one half the width of a human hair. Hydraulic fracturing uses water pressure to create hairline fractures in rocks deep under.ground so natural gas can flow. The amount of time needed to fracture each well stage is typically only four to eight hours, as compared to the weeks it can take to complete the many steps needed to drill a well. Interestingly, hydraulic fracturing is not a new technology. Our industry has safely employed the technology as part of drilling more than 1 million wells since the 1940s. What is new is the combination of the fracturing practice with other techniques, such as horizontal drilling and multizone stimulation. Addressing stakeholder concerns Stakeholder groups have recently expressed concerns about potential environmental and health issues, including freshwater use, the migration of gases and hydraulic fracturing additives to groundwater or to the surface, and the handling of by-products. ExxonMobil addresses these concerns by carefully designing and completing our wells and rigorously managing the entire process. ExxonMobil chairs the American Petroleum Institute working group that has developed four best management practice documents encompassing the life cycle of unconven.tional resource development. We work with state governments and multistate entities to address concerns, establish effective regu.latory frameworks, and implement industry consensus on best management practices. Government and independent reports confirm that stimulating wells with hydraulic fracturing poses no inherent risk to water supplies. Part of this finding has to do with the fact that natural gas resources are sepa.rated from groundwater by thousands of feet of impermeable rock. Still, our industry takes extra precautions to protect and conserve water supplies. Protecting fresh water Water supply, especially in water-stressed regions, is an environmental issue of growing importance and one ExxonMobil takes seri.ously. Hydraulic fracturing requires fresh water, though not nearly as much as other exxonMobil and xto energy inc. merger The merger of ExxonMobil and XTO Energy Inc. combines the strengths of our orga.nizations to help us to further unlock the growing natural gas potential in the United States. According to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, there are enough unconventional natural gas resources in the United States to meet the country’s needs for 100 years at current consumption rates. This is great news for America’s energy security and the economy. Natural gas production generates jobs and revenues for local, state, and federal governments. In 2008, natural gas contributed $385 billion to the U.S. economy and supported nearly 3 million American jobs. 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 31 energy production operations. Compared to coal production, hydraulic fracturing uses about one-tenth the amount of water. To minimize environmental impacts and burden on local water infrastructure, ExxonMobil is using increasing amounts of recycled water. In 2011, our operations in the Marcellus region in the northeast.ern United States will expand the use of recycling produced water in our fracturing process. In addition, pipelines will be laid where feasible to transport fresh water for the process. This will reduce the need for pits to temporarily store fresh water and will reduce truck traffic. In all cases, we appropriately treat or dispose of remain.ing by-products according to local, state, and federal regulations. Additionally, all of our drilling rigs in the Marcellus region use closed loop drilling fluid systems. These systems eliminate drilling pits, reducing the overall site footprint. With reports of potential contaminants in drinking water sources, the use of additives in hydraulic fracturing fluids has been a focal point of debate. ExxonMobil’s natural gas production operations use the smallest proportion of fluid additives needed to be safe and effective. Fracturing fluids typically used in our operations contain approximately 99.5 percent water and sand, and 0.5 percent special purpose additives. These ingredients are necessary to reduce friction, prevent bacterial growth, and minimize scale forma.tion that can corrode pipes. A vital component of building community trust is transparency of operations. We support the disclosure of the ingredients used in hydraulic fracturing fluids, including on a site-specific basis. We work with indus.try associations to provide regulators and first responders the information they require about fracturing ingredients. We also partici.pate in the state-based national database for fracturing fluid ingredients jointly sponsored by the Ground Water Protection Council and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission. This database is now available to the public and provides a transparent, consolidated source of information across industry on a site-by-site basis. On the Web: Natural Gas exxonmobil.com/naturalgas 1The diagram represents a typical well design for a shale gas operation. Other well designs vary to meet the local geology. 32 exxonmobil.com Managing Climate Change Risks hiGhLiGhts ~5  20%  $1.6  million metric tons  reduction in upstream  billion invested to  of CO2 captured for  hydrocarbon flaring  improve energy efficiency  underground injection  and reduce GHG  emissions since 2006  perforMance overview  what we said in 2009 • improve energy efficiency by at least 10 percent between 2002 and 2012 across our worldwide refining and chemical operations • continue efforts to reduce upstream hydrocarbon flaring • advance technology solutions for reducing greenhouse gas (GhG) emissions • engage with governments globally on developments in climate change policy what we did in 2010 • improved energy efficiency and remained on track to achieve our 2012 goal for refining and chemical operations • supported research on fuel from algae with the opening of a new greenhouse research and testing facility • advanced carbon capture and storage (ccs) and cfZ™ technology to reduce GhG emissions • engaged with governments globally on climate change policy what we plan to do • continue to improve energy efficiency by at least 10 percent between 2002 and 2012 across our worldwide refining and chemical operations • continue efforts to reduce upstream hydrocarbon flaring • explore ways to integrate new technolo gies to reduce GhG emissions into large oil and gas projects • start up new cogeneration facilities in singapore and the netherlands 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 33 Addressing the risks of climate change will require significant efforts by industry, government, and society. Expanding energy supplies to meet global demand while developing technologies that reduce GHG emissions are among the world’s greatest challenges. At ExxonMobil, our strategy to reduce GHG emissions is focused on increasing energy efficiency in the short term, implementing proven emission-reducing technologies in the near and medium term, and developing breakthrough, game-changing technologies for the long term. Technological innovation will play a central role in our ability to increase supply, improve efficiency, and reduce emis.sions. Approximately 90 percent of the GHG emissions generated by petroleum prod.ucts are released when customers use our products, and the remaining 10 percent are generated by industry operations.1 Therefore, technology is also needed to reduce energy-related emissions by end users. Mitigating operational greenhouse gas emissions In our operations, we focus on five key levers to reduce GHG emissions: flare reduction, energy efficiency, cogeneration of power and steam, carbon capture and storage (CCS), and production efficiency. Since 2006, we have invested $1.6 billion in activities that improve energy efficiency and reduce GHG emissions. In addition, we have invested over $5 billion in gas utilization and commer.cialization projects to reduce routine natural gas flaring. Greenhouse gas emissions. In 2010, direct GHG emissions2 from our equity operations were 132 million metric tons. Indirect GHG emissions from purchased electricity and steam at our equity operations were estimated to be 15 million metric tons. After subtracting the equity GHG emissions from the produc.tion of electricity and steam exported from our operations (included in our direct emissions), our net equity GHG emissions were estimated to be 127 million metric tons. This is an increase of about 4 million metric tons, or 3 percent from 2009. While increases from new projects such as liquefied natural gas production in Qatar and operations in Iraq increased GHG emissions by 5 million metric tons, we offset GHG emissions by 3 million metric tons through energy management and flare reductions. The remainder was due to normal variations in operations. flaring. Hydrocarbon gases are naturally brought to the surface during crude oil extraction. In some instances, this associ.ated gas is flared or burned, either as a safety measure or as a means of disposal. Gas is flared only when alternate options to utilize the associated gas have been exhausted. Commercial alternatives for associated gas require a business environment with the right conditions, including available markets, infrastructure investments, and appropriate regulations—currently not available in many countries. Reducing the amount of flared gas is an ongoing challenge for ExxonMobil’s operations in areas with limited infrastructure for putting the natural gas to beneficial use. In 2010, our upstream flaring averaged 350 million cubic feet per day, a reduction of more than 20 percent from 2009 and nearly 60 percent from 2006. We continue to seek opportunities to reduce flared gas as a means of decreasing our overall GHG emissions. Our operations in Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea account for the greatest percentage technological innovations to meet growing demand exxonMobil operations consumers (End users, power producers, and manufacturers) near terM • Energy efficiency improvements through the Global Energy Management System and Production Operations Energy Management System • Flaring reduction • Cogeneration expansion • Selective application of carbon capture and storage technology • Efficiency improvements in the production of liquefied natural gas, oil sands, and unconventional gas LonG terM • Carbon capture and storage • CFZ™ technology • Efficiency improvements in the production of matured field, liquefied natural gas, and oil sands • Advanced biofuels • Conventional vehicle engine and transmission improvements • Tire and automotive parts technology • Enhanced lubricants • Use of advanced plastics to minimize material use • Public awareness campaigns to encourage energy efficiency • Carbon capture and storage applications for stationary sources • Advanced internal combustion engine research • On board hydrogen generation for fuel cell vehicles • Support research conducted by the Global Climate and Energy Project (including carbon capture and storage, solar, and biofuels) 1International Energy Agency 2Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in the Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (American Petroleum Institute) and the Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions (International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association). 34 exxonmobil.com Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Absolute) Direct equity, CO2-equivalent emissions (millions of metric tons) Upstream Downstream Chemical Cogeneration and Hong Kong Power  07  139  08  130  09  128  10  132  Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Normalized) Direct equity, CO2-equivalent emissions excluding cogeneration and Hong Kong Power (metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput of flared gas, contributing about 70 percent of our upstream flaring. We continue to make infrastructure investments to improve gas management in these countries. In 2010, we achieved an almost 40-percent reduction in flaring in Nigeria and a more than 10-percent decrease in Equatorial Guinea compared to 2009. efficiency in exxonMobil operations. Producing fuel and petrochemicals requires significant amounts of energy. In 2010, our operations consumed approximately 1.47 billion gigajoules of energy. Since 2000, we have used our Global Energy Management System (GEMS) to systematically identify and address operational efficiency opportunities. We remain on track to achieve our goal of improving energy efficiency across our worldwide refining and chemical operations by at least 10 percent between 2002 and 2012. We have improved energy efficiency by an average of 7.5 percent in refining and more than 10 percent in chemical since 2002. At our Baton Rouge Chemical Plant in Louisiana, we are upgrading existing equipment to improve energy efficiency, reliability, and raw material flexibility. We anticipate the upgrades will be completed by the end of 2011 and will reduce annual GHG emissions by approxi.mately 80,000 metric tons. At Beaumont, Texas, we constructed a steam line from the chemical plant to the refinery, where there is a demand for steam. The line will reduce annual costs by more than $1.5 million and will reduce GHG emissions by 21,000 metric tons per year, or the equivalent of removing 4000 cars from U.S. roads. In 2010, the four buildings at our Brookhollow campus in Texas received U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ENERGY STAR Awards, the national symbol for superior energy effi.ciency and environmental protection. Overall, the Brookhollow campus has reduced its total energy consumption by 27 percent from 2007 through 2010, or by 13,320 gigajoules. Our Global Real Estate and Facilities group has been working on a Green Assets initiative to minimize the environmental footprint of our assets by utilizing best practices from building standards such as LEED, BREEAM, and Green Star. The group also developed design criteria to reduce energy consumption in facilities in the United States, which are now being expanded internationally. improving efficiency in upstream oil sands production. Canada’s oil sands are ranked second only to Saudi Arabia in terms of recoverable oil reserves. We recognize there is concern among a range of stakeholders regarding the increased energy intensity and water use associated with developing oil sands. Oil sands crude has similar CO2 emis.sions to other heavy oils and generates 6 percent more CO2 emissions than the U.S. crude supply average for the full life cycle, according to Cambridge Energy Research Associates. According to Environment Canada, since 1990, Canada’s oil sands industry has reduced production-related emissions by almost 40 percent per barrel. We recognize there is still work to be done. ExxonMobil and our Canadian affiliate, Imperial Oil, are committed to reducing GHG emissions at our oil sands facilities by investing in the development of incre.mental improvement and game-changing technologies. These technologies, coupled with cogeneration, can result in even greater emissions reductions. At our Kearl oil sands mining project, we will deploy a new proprietary technology— paraffinic froth treatment—to remove fine clay particles and water from the bitumen and produce a product suitable for pipeline transport to market, eliminating the need for an on-site upgrader. Processing bitumen once, rather than twice (in an upgrader and at a refinery), reduces life cycle GHG emissions. We have also developed a new technology called LASER (liquid addition to steam to enhance recovery) to improve in situ oil sands recovery. The LASER technology allows for more energy-efficient and higher recovery of bitumen and will reduce the GHG intensity of this process by about 25 percent. Our cyclic solvent process, currently under development, is a nonthermal method for recovering heavy oil that could potentially reduce the GHG intensity of heavy oil production by about 90 percent. Using cogeneration in oil sands produc.tion reduces our energy requirements and provides an efficient means for producing electricity and steam at the same time. Cogeneration planned for Kearl will reduce CO2 emissions by 500,000 metric tons a year, compared to purchasing electricity for the first phase of the project. Cogeneration facilities at our Cold Lake in situ opera.tion reduced CO2 emissions by 40 percent compared with generating electricity from coal-fired plants and processing steam from conventional boilers. Another important concern surrounding oil sands development in Canada is the impact of water withdrawal on the Athabasca River in Alberta. About 3 percent of the average natural flow of the Athabasca is allocated to the oil industry, half of which is used. At our Kearl oil sands project, we are con.structing a water storage system to reduce water withdrawal from the Athabasca River during low-flow periods. Kearl will also use advanced technologies to recycle water and or production) Upstream Downstream 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 10 19.8 18.7 18.1 18.5 17.4 17.0 16.7 16.6 Chemical 42.0 39.8 40.2 38.2 Greenhouse Gas Reductions from ExxonMobil Actions Direct equity, CO2-equivalent emissions (millions of metric tons) Energy efficiency and cogeneration  Flare reduction  07  5.2  08  7.5  09  9.6  10  12.3  Hydrocarbon Flaring from Upstream Oil and Gas Production (millions of metric tons) 07 7.5 08 5.2 09 4.0 10 3.2 reduce water demand. Water extracted from the Athabasca River will be re-used about 18 times. Our Cold Lake facility uses half a barrel of fresh water for each recovered barrel of bitumen. To significantly reduce water consumption, approximately 95 percent of the water recovered from oil production is treated, recycled, and re-injected as steam. ExxonMobil and Imperial Oil are also pro.gressing promising research on nonaqueous extraction. This emerging technology has the potential to virtually eliminate the need for water and thus revolutionize bitumen extrac.tion recovery for oil sands mining operations. cogeneration. As an industry leader in cogeneration—the simultaneous production of electricity and heat or steam that can be used for industrial purposes—we have inter.ests in more than 100 cogeneration facilities in more than 30 locations. ExxonMobil has interests in about 4900 megawatts of cogen.eration capacity around the world—enough to supply electricity to more than 2 million U.S. homes each year. In 2011, close to 400 megawatts of capacity will be added through the start-up of new facilities in Singapore and the Netherlands. carbon capture and storage. ExxonMobil has been active in developing and apply.ing CCS component technologies since the 1980s. CCS is a process to safely and effectively capture, transport, and store CO2 in underground geologic formations such as saline reservoirs, depleted oil or gas reser.voirs, or deep coal beds. Through our natural gas operations in Wyoming and our equity interest in the Sleipner field in Norway, we captured approximately 5 million metric tons of CO2 for underground injection in 2010. Our LaBarge Shute Creek facility in Wyoming completed an $86 million expansion in 2010 of the world’s largest carbon capture plant. The facility has the capacity to capture approximately 365 million cubic feet of CO2 per day. The captured carbon dioxide is sold to companies for enhanced oil recovery, helping to extend the productive lives of mature oil fields. Improving customer efficiency Energy efficiency—technologies and actions that enable us to do the same, or more, with less energy—is one of the largest and lowest-cost approaches to extend our world’s energy supplies and reduce GHG emissions. We believe gains in energy efficiency through 2030 will reduce global energy demand growth by about 65 percent and will offset more than 75 percent of the carbon dioxide emissions that would have been expected without efficiency gains. ExxonMobil’s customers include both busi.nesses and individual consumers. Improving energy efficiency can benefit both. improving efficiency in the industrial sector. The industrial sector is one of the largest direct and indirect consumers of energy. Through 2030, we predict efficiency improvements will offset 60 percent of the demand growth in the two largest industrial subsectors: heavy industry and chemicals. ExxonMobil is proud to work directly with manufacturers such as Toyota and GE to help them develop more energy-efficient products for their consumers and to improve their own operational efficiency. Our Lubricants and Specialties business regularly engages with industrial custom.ers to develop lubricants and oils that provide increased fuel economy, longer oil life, and extended equipment life. These products include: • Mobil SHC synthetic lubricants and greases—recognized for longer oil perfor.mance cycles compared to conventional oils—help extend industrial equipment life, produce less used oil, and offer potential energy and replacement cost savings; • Mobilgear SHC XMP delivers optimum equipment protection and oil performance for extreme operating conditions associated with wind turbines; and, • Mobil SHC Pegasus delivers a high level of performance to a wide range of natural gas engines used for cogeneration and is one of the first gas engine oils to offer fuel economy benefits in this sector. improving efficiency for the individual con.sumer. We actively support initiatives to reduce consumer emissions from the use of our prod.ucts in the transportation sector. To improve the efficiency of the global vehicle fleet, ExxonMobil is working with external partners such as automobile and tire manufacturers. 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 35 doha carbon and energy forum In late 2010, approximately 150 experts from internationally renowned academic, industrial, and governmental institutions convened at the Doha Carbon and Energy Forum in Qatar to discuss the challenge of increased energy use, finite energy reserves, and the impact of greenhouse gas emissions. The event was organized by the Qatar Foundation for Education, Science, and Community Development; Qatar Petroleum; and ExxonMobil Qatar Inc. The forum reviewed recommenda.tions on current, emerging, and innovative technologies relevant to Qatar and the Gulf region. It is anticipated that the Qatar Foundation-Energy and Environment Research Institute will follow up on the recommendations of the forum. 36 exxonmobil.com By developing near-term and long-term advances in vehicle, fuel, and lubricant tech.nology, we can help significantly reduce trans-portation-related GHG emissions (see below). Investing in long-term scientific research ExxonMobil is investing in long-term scientific research that may have transformative poten.tial for the economy and the environment. Global Climate and Energy Project. In 2002, ExxonMobil made a long-term research com.mitment by becoming a founding sponsor of the Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP) at Stanford University in California. We have since contributed more than half of our $100 million commitment to the program. This pioneering research program is focused on identifying breakthrough energy tech.nologies that reduce GHG emissions and that could be developed on a large scale within a 10-to 50-year time frame. GCEP has sponsored more than 66 research programs at 27 institutions in Australia, Europe, Japan, and the United States. advancing renewable biofuels. ExxonMobil is focused on improving the efficient supply of current energy sources, such as oil and natural gas, while developing potential new sources, such as biofuels from algae. Algae-based biofuels may provide an attrac.tive option that could be used to supplement petroleum fuels within the current supply and use system and with the existing vehicle fleet. In 2009, we announced our collaboration with Synthetic Genomics Inc. (SGI) to research algae-based biofuels. This research and development program is a long-term effort, and if milestones are successfully met, we expect to invest more than $600 million. In 2010, we commissioned a new green.house research and testing facility in La Jolla, California, to supplement ongoing work in the laboratory. In the greenhouse, scientists and engineers are experimenting with different algae growth systems, light levels, temperature conditions, and carbon dioxide and nutrient concentrations in a setting that more closely reflects real-world conditions. This will help us better evaluate whether large-scale volumes of affordable biofuel can be made from algae. Because scientists are using both naturally occurring and engineered strains of algae to identify optimal characteristics for growth, harvesting, and bio-oil recovery, environmental considerations and safety were factored into the design and construction of the greenhouse. The facility is built in a secure area of the SGI campus and has containment and treatment systems for all greenhouse waste streams. Advanced tire lining technology keeps tires properly inflated longer. Cars with properly inflated tires may save up to an extra tank of gas annually. Strong, light weight plastics help reduce vehicle weight. For every 10 percent drop in vehicle weight, fuel economy improves by ~7 percent. 2010 Corporate Citizenship Report 37 Algae-based biofuels present potential environmental benefits compared to other biofuels. At the La Jolla testing facility, algae are cultivated in salt water drawn from the nearby Pacific Ocean. A commercial algae-growing and algae-harvesting farm could use land and water unsuitable for crops, eliminat.ing competition for acreage or fresh water intended for human or agricultural use. The next phase of our project is to build a larger testing facility in an outdoor setting; work on this phase has already begun. Successful research could create an integrated system where algae, fed on CO2 captured from a large stationary source, would then be refined into a variety of transportation fuels. Public policy debate A number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regula.tory frameworks to reduce GHG emissions, including cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Assessing policy options to reduce emis.sions requires an understanding of their likely effectiveness, scale, and cost, as well as their implications for economic growth and quality of life. While the final determination and timing of policy belongs to governments, ExxonMobil is—and will continue to be—a constructive participant in these discussions. Our scientists, engineers, and managers participate in research and assessment activities, such as the Intergovernmental Technology Management System Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). In 2010, one of our scientists participated as a reviewer in an IPCC report on renewable energy technologies and organized a workshop to provide industry input to the IPCC on this report. We work with legislative and regula.tory processes around the globe to assist in the design of practical, cost-effective ways to implement climate policies. Effective public policy should promote inno.vation, encourage competition, set goals, and provide a broad framework for entrepreneurs and innovators to achieve these goals. When considering policy options, ExxonMobil advo.cates an approach that: • Ensures a uniform and predictable cost of carbon across the economy; • Lets market prices drive the selection of solutions; • Maximizes transparency to companies and consumers; • Reduces administrative complexity; • Promotes global participation; and, • Is easily adjusted to future developments in climate science and the economic impacts of climate policies. A well-designed carbon tax is better able to accommodate these key criteria than other alternatives, such as cap and trade. Importantly, a carbon tax can be made revenue-neutral via tax offsets in other areas. Combined with further advances in energy efficiency and new technologies spurred by market innovation, such a carbon tax could play a significant role in addressing the chal.lenge of rising GHG emissions. International accords and underlying regional and national regulations for GHG reduction are evolving with uncertain timing and outcomes, making it difficult to predict their business impact. In 2010, we engaged in discussions around these issues with numerous governments and legislators from Australia, Canada, the European Union, Japan, Singapore, and the United States. We test a range of potential cost scenarios for energy-related GHG emissions in our Outlook for Energy (see page 6), which we prepare each year to assess the business environment and use in our investment evaluations. On the Web: Climate and emissions exxonmobil.com/climate Carbon Disclosure Project response exxonmobil.com/cdp Our actions to reduce GHG emissions exxonmobil.com/emissions Global Climate and Energy Project gcep.stanford.edu Oil sands exxonmobil.com/oilsands Climate change risks exxonmobil.com/10k (page 4) Algae research exxonmobil.com/algae ExxonMobil pursues research into proprietary breakthrough technologies that will not only enhance existing business, but provide step changes in the Corporation’s competitive posi.tion. Research and development of an energy breakthrough technology may take 10 to 20 years, with up to an additional decade before the technology achieves widespread use. ExxonMobil utilizes a Technology Manage.ment System to steward this process. This system consists of several gates, each of which must be completed prior to moving on to the next phase of development. Assuming the likelihood of passing each gate is about 70 percent, the probability of reaching broad deployment would be about 8 percent. A simplified version of this pipeline can be seen below for carbon capture and storage technology. For example, in 2011, we will begin testing our proprietary CFZ™ technology in a com.mercial demonstration plant near La Barge, Wyoming. This testing will occur more than two decades after we received our first patent on the technology. CFZ™ technol.ogy freezes CO2 and effectively separates it as well as other impurities, enabling us to process gas with high concentrations of CO2. The technology could both unlock vast new natural gas resources and make CCS more affordable and efficient. Basic Laboratory Pilot First Industry use science research testing commercialization and benefits Form initial CO2 CFZ™ LaBarge Shute Enhanced oil and gas hypothesis separation technology Creek facility, recovery and reduced Wyoming GHG emissions 