UNCONVENTIONAL NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT Key Public Policy Issues All industrial processes have risks, and the production of unconventional natural gas is no different. Stakeholders are concerned about how industry manages risks close to their homes and businesses, including those related to groundwater, methane venting, wastewater management, vehicle traffic and other related effects. We will continue to take a leadership role in working collaboratively with communities, regulators and industry associations to manage operational risks and address these questions and concerns. Reducing Community Impacts Water and Wastewater Management Our industry has made strides to reduce the surface footprint of our operations and facilities, as well as traffic and sound disruptions. For example, directional drilling techniques enable us to drill multiple wells from a single location, significantly reducing the surface area required to develop this resource. To lessen traffic disruptions, we discuss truck requirements and schedules with local communities; for example, traffic required to carry equipment, materials and fluids to the site can use designated routes during specific hours of the day and week. To reduce noise, acoustic sound barriers can be installed around the perimeter of a drilling well. A typical well employing hydraulic fracturing requires approximately 3 million to 5 million gallons of water, which is equivalent to three to six Olympic-sized swimming pools. Although this amount of water is significant, shale gas is one of the more water-efficient sources of energy. For example, coal mining typically utilizes two to four times more water per unit of energy, and corn-based ethanol production often uses more than 1,000 times more water per unit of energy. Where feasible, ExxonMobil recycles water to limit environmental impacts and reduce the burden on local water infrastructure. As necessary, we also lay pipelines to transport freshwater to our sites, which reduces truck traffic and the need for pits to store freshwater temporarily. In all cases, ExxonMobil appropriately treats or disposes of remaining by-products according to local, state and federal regulations. When drilling a well, we install a series of protective steel piping and cement layers that create an impermeable barrier between the well and groundwater zones. Each layer is tested and monitored to ensure the well’s integrity throughout its life. When performed properly, fracturing fluids do not come into contact with drinking water reservoirs at any point in the process. In fact, hydraulic fracturing typically takes place thousands of feet Groundwater below the water table — isolated from drinking water by multiple layers of impermeable rock. One vital component of building community trust is transparency. ExxonMobil supports the disclosure of the ingredients used in hydraulic fracturing fluids, including on a site-specific basis. In the United States, disclosures appear on the publicly accessible FracFocus.org website. In Canada, the public can access FracFocus.ca for industry disclosures in British Columbia and Alberta. We are pursuing similar disclosure approaches in Europe and other areas where we are exploring internationally. In addition, ExxonMobil works with first responders in local communities to provide training and information in case of a spill. Since local groundwater conditions, geology and well needs vary across our operations, we conduct risk assessments at every site, and then develop comprehensive, tailored risk mitigation measures. In accordance with government regulations, our industry is conducting water quality tests within 2,500 feet of Pennsylvania drilling sites. In addition, the Marcellus Shale Coalition is developing a robust pre-drill water quality database. This first-of-a.kind library will serve as an important environmental and public health tool to help address water quality challenges that have persisted in rural communities for decades. ExxonMobil and Imperial Oil understand  there is concern among a range of stakeholders regarding the development of oil sands. Innovation in oil sands technology underpins our ability to continue to develop this resource safely and responsibly. Canada’s oil sands are an immense resource, ranking third behind Saudi Arabia and Venezuela in proven reserves. Future development of Canadian oil sands reserves will likely provide a measure of energy security in the United States and economic benefits throughout North America. Nevertheless, stakeholders have raised concerns about the development of oil sands, particularly regarding greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, land use, water use and tailings ponds. Our challenge as an industry is to ensure that we continue to move forward in developing this globally important resource in a thoughtful and responsible fashion. ExxonMobil and our Canadian affiliate, Imperial Oil, are developing and deploying incremental and game-changing technologies to improve efficiency and reduce environmental impacts at our oil sands facilities. Taken together, new technologies will enable ExxonMobil to produce Canada’s oil sands with about the same life-cycle GHG emissions levels as many other crude oils refined in the United States. Oil Sands Production Oil sands are a naturally occurring mixture of heavy oil — called bitumen — water and sand. Producers use mining or in-situ extraction methods to recover bitumen, depending on the depth of the reserves. For in-situ recovery, producers inject steam into underground reservoirs that contain bitumen. The steam heats the bitumen and reduces its intensity, enabling it to flow and be produced. About 80 percent of Canada’s oil sands reserves are recoverable using in-situ techniques. The remaining 20 percent are shallow enough to be recovered through mining operations. The footprint of these operations is considerable, requiring careful environmental planning and management. New Recovery Techniques Advances in technology are the key to economic and responsible development of oil sands resources. Over the past 40 years, ExxonMobil has invested more than 2,000 work years in heavy oil research. These efforts include developing proprietary in-situ recovery processes, enhancing surface-related technologies and creating technologies to increase the value of heavy oil and aid in its transport. In an effort to reduce our environmental impact further and improve efficiency, Imperial Oil researchers continue to deploy new inventions, including: lASER: After more than a decade of research and pilot testing, Imperial Oil is deploying a new technology called LASER (liquid addition to steam to enhance recovery) that involves the co-injection of low concentrations of pipeline diluent (natural gas condensate) with steam into underground reservoirs. The diluent helps reduce the viscosity of the bitumen, improves the bitumen’s ability to flow and increases the amount of produced bitumen per unit of steam. This leads to decreasing the bitumen’s GHG emissions intensity  by more than 25 percent. Continuous Infill Steam-Flooding: Imperial Oil also piloted a steam-flooding technology to improve resource recovery in mature fields. Results from the pilot showed that the technology can improve resource recovery and reduce GHG emissions intensity for bitumen by up to 30 percent. Cyclic Solvent Process: This technology is under development for in-situ oil sands sites. The cyclic solvent process uses solvent instead of steam to produce bitumen. By eliminating the use of steam, the process significantly improves energy efficiency, reducing produced-bitumen GHG emissions intensity by about 90 percent, and virtually eliminates water use. Imperial is constructing a $100 million field pilot to test this promising technology; it is expected to start in early 2014. Paraffinic Froth Treatment: The Kearl oil sands mining operation in Alberta will use proprietary paraffinic froth treatment technology to process bitumen on-site. The process blends the bitumen with natural gas condensates to create a diluted bitumen product suitable for transportation directly to markets. This technology eliminates the need for a traditional on-site “upgrading” process, reducing life-cycle GHG emissions. Non-Aqueous Extraction (NAE): Scientists at Imperial Oil and ExxonMobil are working to reduce the amount of water required during oil sands mining operations. NAE could potentially reduce the use of water during extraction by more than 90 percent. NAE also produces dry tailings, facilitating early, progressive remediation. Supporting Oil Sands Research In addition to the research carried out at Imperial’s Calgary Research Center, Imperial Oil sponsors a wide range of energy research programs at Canadian universities and other institutions. Imperial Oil is the founding sponsor of the Centre for Oil Sands Innovation at the University of Alberta, which aims to conduct breakthrough research to reduce the use of water and energy, thereby reducing the environmental footprint of oil sands development. During 2012, in another research endeavor, Imperial Oil, along with 13 other major oil sands companies, created the Canadian Oil Sands Innovation Alliance, designed to mobilize the best thinking, experience and technology available to deliver environmental improvements to the oil sands sector. ExxonMobil and the industry as a whole have made and continue to make major technological strides in advancing processes, increasing efficiency and reducing the environmental impact of oil sands development. We recognize that stakeholders have concerns, and we understand the importance of ensuring that we do business safely and responsibly. We will continue to leverage technologies in order to find more efficient ways to develop Canada’s oil sands. For more information, see our Oil Sands Brochure and the  2011 Corporate Citizenship Report. 