Responsible Water Management The global population is estimated to increase by nearly 2 bil.lion people between now and 2040. This population increase, coupled with growing economic prosperity, will increase demand for natural resources, including water. When taken in total, the volume of freshwater on the planet is enough to support the world’s population; however, water is not always available where and when it is needed. Its availability is subject to seasonal and annual variability, and may be restricted by poor infrastructure or socioeconomic factors in a given region. The industrial sector, including the oil and gas industry, accounts for 5 to 10 percent of total water withdrawals in even the highest-income countries — far less than the water needs for agriculture or electric power generation, for example.1 However, the oil and gas industry can be a material user of  water at local levels. We recognize that stakeholders have  concerns about the use and protection of this resource. As  such, we focus our efforts on preventing adverse impacts to  water resources and prudently managing the water we do use. As part of our comprehensive risk management approach, we  2010  are committed to managing the interaction of our activities with water. We aim to protect human health and the environ.ment, consider local water availability and needs, continuously  2011 2012  improve our capabilities and performance regarding our use of water, and engage stakeholders in the development of  2013  sustainable solutions.  12014 United Nations World Water Development and U.S. Geological Survey Estimated Use of Water in the United States in 2005 reports GLOBAL FRESHWATER CONSUMPTION (millions of cubic meters) RESPONSIBLE WATER MANAGEMENT PROTECTING HUMAN HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT We are committed to protecting human health and the envi.ronment by preventing spills and leaks and limiting the impacts of our water withdrawals, consumption and discharges. In 2013, net freshwater consumption at our operations was 280 million cubic meters. This represents a 24 percent decrease compared with 2011. Designing to improve water quality — Our environmental practices and standards ensure that risk management measures are incorporated into the design and operation of our facilities. For example, we have begun constructing an REGIONAL WATER AVAILABILITY2 Major sites located in areas with some degree of water stress or scarcity 2Results based on an assessment of our 89 major operating sites using the    WBCSD’s Global Water Tool. advanced biological wastewater treatment facility at our Baton Rouge, Louisiana, refinery that will reduce total nitrate discharges by 500 tons per year. While the refinery is a relatively small contributor to overall nitrate discharges into the Mississippi River basin, this voluntary reduction will have direct environmental benefits for the Gulf of Mexico, where high levels of nitrates over several years have created a dead zone, or an area of low dissolved oxygen. The refinery received awards from the Louisiana governor and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in recognition of these voluntary efforts. Spill prevention — We employ a rigorous approach to prevent spills and leaks in our operations. To learn more about our focus on spill prevention and response, see page 33. CONSIDERING LOCAL WATER NEEDS We consider local water needs and alternatives when sourcing water for our activities, including identifying and managing risks related to water availability and quality. We have been active in collaborative industry initiatives to develop a suite of standard tools for systematic water resource management. The IPIECA Global Water Tool for Oil and Gas is a version of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool that has been customized for the oil and gas sector. The IPIECA tool helps companies map water use and assess risks. ExxonMobil performs a screening exercise each year using this tool after the WBCSD updates its Global Water Tool with new data. Of our 89 major operating sites, approx.imately one-quarter are located in areas identified with the potential for water stress or scarcity. These areas are located in 13 countries. We develop and implement local water management pro.grams in locations where we identify potential water-related risks. In some cases, this entails a review of freshwater con.sumption rates to identify improvement opportunities. A more focused water tool is sometimes used to identify and rank risks associated with the availability and reliability of local water sources and wastewater discharge locations. ExxonMobil worked with IPIECA and the Global Environmental Manage.ment Initiative to develop such a tool for the oil and gas industry to complement the IPIECA Global Water Tool. Replace, reduce, reuse and recycle — Our operations use alternative water sources, where appropriate, and seek opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle water. We consider multiple factors in determining the right approach for a given process or site. We assess actual costs, as well as potential RESPONSIBLE WATER MANAGEMENT trade-offs, such as varied operational efficiencies, increased energy use or the consequences of producing more concen.trated waste streams. Together, these factors help us deter.mine an implicit value of water, which varies from site to site due to local conditions and availability. Our Torrance, California, refinery purchases and uses recycled wastewater from a local municipal treatment plant for cooling tower makeup and boiler feed water, representing nearly 70 percent of the facility’s water consumption. Water is also a key consideration in our oil sands developments in Alberta, Canada. We designed the Kearl oil sands operation to run on stored water during the low-flow winter months in order to reduce withdrawals from the Athabasca River during this period. In our heavy oil operations at Cold Lake, Canada, we employ a variety of water-use reduction measures, and about 90 percent of water used on-site is non-potable water that comes to the surface along with bitumen during production. CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVING CAPABILITIES AND PERFORMANCE We use research and operational analyses to support the con.tinuous improvement of water-related technologies, practices and performance. Our researchers have published life cycle assessments in peer-reviewed journals on topics such as algae biofuel technology options and shale gas production, including their impacts on water. We conduct cutting-edge research and development through in-house efforts and partnerships with other industries, and by funding academic and other non.governmental research projects. Some of these investiga.tions deal with water-related challenges and opportunities. For example, Imperial, along with 11 other major operators, created the Canadian Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) in 2012. Currently, 13 companies, including Imperial, participate in COSIA. It was created to develop and share technologies that improve environmental performance in the Canadian oil sands sector. Water is one of the priority areas for COSIA. ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS We collaborate with stakeholders to promote the long-term viability of source waters, watersheds and related ecosys.tems in areas where we work. For example, in October 2012, Qatar University and ExxonMobil entered into a partnership to research industrial wastewater reuse technologies. In particular, researchers are studying phytoremediation, a process that uses select native plants to clean water in an engineered wetlands system. Treated wastewater can then be reused in non-potable applications, such as park or green-space irrigation. Community water projects — In some communities where we operate, safe drinking water is not available on a consistent basis. As part of our approach to starting new operations, we consider opportunities that bring benefits to the local community and our business, including potentially investing in community water projects. For example, ExxonMobil’s affiliate in Indonesia, Mobil Cepu Limited (MCL), launched a community-based water program to reduce the incidence of waterborne diseases and promote healthier living in the Cepu Block area of Indonesia. Unconventional Oil and Gas Development ExxonMobil and our subsidiary XTO Energy have been involved in unconventional oil and gas development for many years. Our approach begins with successful stakeholder engagement and continued diligence managing environmen.tal, social and health risks and performance. Watch our unconventional resources timeline video Natural gas is an abundant, reliable and versatile fuel source.  In the United States, vast new supplies of natural gas are providing strong economic benefits and helping the nation meet shared environmental priorities. The U.S. Energy Infor.mation Administration estimated that in 2012, energy-related U.S. CO2 emissions fell by 3.8 percent to levels not seen since 1994. A key reason for this is the increased use of natural gas, as it emits up to 60 percent less CO2 than coal when used for power generation. ExxonMobil continues to invest in this important resource. business community members, emergency and first responders, land and mineral rights owners, and local charitable organiza.tions. We meet with representatives from each of these groups to find out what is important to the community, and to listen to their questions and concerns. How important is stakeholder engagement to XTO Energy’s operations in the Appalachia region of the United States? Karen: It goes to the heart of what we do. XTO Energy wants to be a welcomed member of the community and a partner of choice. Headlines in major newspapers do not always capture what is important to local community members in the places where we work. There is no substitute for actually sitting down and talking to the community. Though the Appalachian states have a long history of energy production, shale development is new. It is important that we explain to community members what they can expect when we begin operations, and keep them informed regularly. How does XTO Energy identify and engage with stakehold.ers in the Appalachia region? Karen: We think open and active dialogue with community members is vital to our long-term operations in the region. Before we enter a specific township or county, we do extensive research on who lives and works in the area and we identify key community leaders — local officials, leaders in education, UNCONVENTIONAL OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT To that end, we prepare regular activity reports in select areas, which we send via email to key stakeholders. It is also important that we hear their concerns, not just at the beginning of the project but throughout the entire life cycle. We have undertaken several approaches in our division to establish a two-way dialogue with our stakeholders. In some situations, we create a community advisory panel in select areas to estab.lish regular face-to-face meetings between a cross-section of the community and XTO Energy employees. We also participate in meetings with local officials, as needed, and provide site tours to community members so they can observe and ask ques.tions about drilling, hydraulic fracturing and processing. XTO Energy workers in our divisions address local organizations and participate in school events. We also support workforce training initiatives to enable local residents to find employment support.ing our industry. What are the biggest challenges you face when trying to address community concerns? Karen: Naturally, people living near our operations are concerned our work will disrupt their way of life. That is why it remains important for us to understand the setting and issues, and then implement practices from the onset that will minimize potential impacts, such as altering our traffic routes to avoid disrupting school bus traffic. Our industry can provide significant benefits for local communities and provide them with the means to preserve their way of life. For example, we sign leases with a number of farmers, and the money they receive from signing bonuses and royalties enables them to build new barns or buy new farming equipment. The biggest challenge we face from a public affairs standpoint is combating the misinformation about our industry and its operations. This is why it is crucial that XTO Energy and other operators maintain direct contact with our communities and address concerns about what we do and how and why we do it. XTO Energy engineers and geologists are on hand at public meetings to explain the steps XTO Energy takes to safeguard the community and the environment. Some stakeholders have raised concerns about the poten.tial environmental and community impacts associated with unconventional oil and gas development. What is XTO Energy doing to manage those potential impacts? Paul: All energy resources have potential impacts. Unconven.tional oil and gas development is no different. ExxonMobil has been rigorously evaluating the proven scientific risks and mitigations for hydraulic fracturing, methane emissions, water usage, groundwater protection, community health, seismicity and chemical use, to name a few.  I lead the Unconventional Resources Development Issue Management Team (URD IMT), which is responsible for assess.ing these issues and for positioning the company ahead of the ever-changing landscape of concerns and challenges regarding unconventional resource development. The team consists of 60 ExxonMobil employees, including managers; researchers; engineers and scientists; environmental, health and safety pro.fessionals; lawyers; and public and government affairs experts. Unconventional resource development has attracted attention from a wide range of interested parties, including investors, UNCONVENTIONAL OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT governments, regulators, opinion-makers, think tanks, academ.ics, media and NGOs. Our team engages with these groups to ensure that ExxonMobil, as a responsible operator and credible partner, is able to develop resources in the United States and abroad. The IMT’s work spans legislative activi.ties, regulatory advocacy, scientific evaluation and speaking openly to concerned communities about risks and mitigations involved in resource development. What has XTO Energy been working on regarding technology innovation in unconventional resource development? Paul: Research and innovation continue to improve both our operations and how we manage our footprint. We are involved in many studies that have been published in peer-reviewed publications. We share the results of these studies with our stakeholders to improve the dialogue and to allow science and facts to inform policy decisions. One example is our participation in the groundbreaking Univer.sity of Texas study that measured methane at 190 natural gas well sites in every region of the United States where hydraulic fracturing is occurring. This study was led by Dr. David Allen and included the Environmental Defense Fund and several indus.try companies. This survey was the most extensive yet, and it highlighted new evidence that methane emissions generated by hydraulic fracturing and shale gas production are at the low end of recent U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates. We are also participating in collaborative research projects to more fully understand other impacts of unconventional resource development. Our seismology researchers are studying induced seismicity, which is a rare occurrence, particularly when associated with oil and gas activities such as injection and hydraulic fracturing. With regard to water, our Permian Basin operations published a study with Halliburton about tests where recycled produced water was utilized to hydraulically fracture wells. We also conducted a Marcellus shale gas life cycle assessment to determine GHG emis.sions and freshwater consumption from well activities through power plant and consumer consumption. Results showed natural gas produces significantly fewer GHG emissions and utilizes less water compared with coal (see page 58). What does XTO Energy see as its biggest opportunity in the next few years regarding unconventional resource development? Paul: We have a huge opportunity to gain public confidence not only in what we can do now and in the future, but also in how the business is effectively regulated to produce safe and environmentally protective outcomes. ExxonMobil is working to communicate effectively the scientific realities of producing shale oil and gas to people who are rightfully skeptical due to the contrarian and, in some cases, unfounded messaging from antidevelopment activists. We welcome responsible dialogue and conversation on this topic. In addition, the industry needs regulations that provide protec.tive benefits without constraining innovation, development or technology. In the United States, our operations are subject to federal, state and local regulations. Every state with unconven.tional resource development potential has acted or is acting to adjust its oil and gas oversight regulations, and federal agencies with jurisdiction are doing the same. Looking to the future, we are going to need more regulators at the state level that have an understanding of oil and gas operations. It is for this reason that ExxonMobil and General Electric each contributed $1 million to three universities to develop a curriculum aimed at training the regulators of tomorrow. We made the contribution in 2012, and the universities had their first curriculum session in August 2013, with more to come. With a track record of responsible development, we can attain and maintain public confidence. There is tremendous economic potential now and into the next century. Employees in Angola receiving on-the-job training. ExxonMobil supports education and training initiatives aimed at increasing the number of local workers at our facilities and offices. 