Economic DevelopmentHIGHLIGHTS 65+  61%  $278  thousand employees  of our employees  million in combined corpo. trained in 2011  are located outside the  rate and employee giving  United States  in the form of cash, goods,  and services worldwide  PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW  What we said in 2010 • Work with the Medicines for Malaria Venture to fund clinical trials of new anti malarial drugs in Papua New Guinea • Fund 10 scholarships for a master s degree in Global Health Science at Oxford University to help train the next generation of health leaders in develop ing countries and emerging markets • Approach a 90 percent Russian workforce in our Sakhalin 1 operations and projects by 2012 . Launch a Latin America Businesswomen s Network What we did in 2011 • Launched a research study with the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women on mobile phone services that can help women entrepreneurs develop their businesses • Worked with the Medicines for Malaria Venture to fund clinical trials of new anti malarial drugs in Papua New Guinea • Completed funding of a two year com mitment for 10 scholarships for health leaders from developing countries and emerging markets to obtain a master s degree in Global Health Science at Oxford University . Launched a Latin America Businesswomen s Network What we plan to do • Partner with the United Nations Foundation to develop a report examining the most effective investments to advance women s economic empowerment • Work with TRACE International to conduct a transparency forum for govern ment ofﬁcials in West Africa • Continue efforts to achieve a 90 percent Russian workforce in our Sakhalin 1 opera tions and projects, now targeted for 2013 • Strategize science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) programs to achieve national content goals in Nigeria and Angola ExxonMobil is committed to developing local economic capacity in a way that beneﬁts people, com.munities, and our business over the long term. This strategic objective is embedded into our project plans. Supporting strong local economies where we operate enables economic growth and positively affects community health, education, gender equality, security, and environmental protection. Contributing to economic growth Poverty, restricted access to education, insufﬁcient business and technical skills, lack of employment opportunities, and corruption are just a few of the barriers to economic growth in many countries where ExxonMobil operates. These barriers will not be eliminated through aid alone, but through the creation of business frameworks that enable the development of local economies through skills development, job creation, and opportunities for investment. These issues are complex, and the private sector is limited in its ability to address them. Forming global partnerships is one part of creating long.term beneﬁts for local communities. In 2000, the United Nations adopted eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) aimed at improving living conditions and opportunities for the world’s poorest people. As we expand our operations in developing countries, ExxonMobil has the opportunity to help catalyze economic development and support local efforts that make prog.ress toward the MDGs. Achieving these goals depends on access to modern energy sources—a central aspect of our business. Transparency As a core part of our commitment to maintain.ing the highest standards of ethical behavior, we actively support transparent government revenue reporting, a responsibility we share with our extractive industry peers. We recognize that public disclosure of pay.ments companies make to governments and governmental use of those payments strengthens accountability and good gov.ernance, reduces corruption, and promotes greater economic stability. To achieve the shared goal of revenue transparency, we participate in transparency capacity building initiatives, as well as a variety of multistake.holder discussions. Since 2006, we have provided in-kind support of TRACE International workshops in Chad and Equatorial Guinea. TRACE conducts two-day anti-bribery law events that begin with a workshop for the local staff of TRACE member companies, including ExxonMobil and their local contractors, and conclude with a high-level anti-bribery compliance forum designed for government ofﬁ cials of the host country. These events, which draw the full support and participation of local ExxonMobil management and staff, help local governments and contractors understand and comply with international anti-corruption con.ventions. We plan to work with TRACE in 2012 to conduct another workshop in West Africa. In August 2011, ExxonMobil participated in a Revenue Watch Institute capacity building program, hosted by the Catholic University of Central Africa in Yaoundé, Cameroon. The program brought together almost 40 civil society representatives from eight African countries. ExxonMobil presented on a variety of topics to provide partici.pants with a business perspective of the basic knowledge and tools for responsible revenue management and reporting. We will continue participating in similar programs around the world to help develop global transparency practices. ExxonMobil has actively participated in Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) since its inception in 2002 at both the secretariat and country levels, including continuous participation on the EITI board as either a primary or alternate member. Nearly 20 countries where we have operations are in the process of becoming, or have become, EITI members. The Corporation is supporting the application, validation, and membership processes of EITI participating countries such as Azerbaijan, Cameroon, Chad, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, and Norway and of potential new EITI countries including Australia, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Papua New Guinea, and the United States. ExxonMobil’s practical experience imple.menting EITI has shown that the best results are obtained when countries begin their disclosure processes in line with their own legislation, culture, and traditions, and adopt simple and straightforward mechanisms that ensure multistakeholder engagement and commitments. The level of aggregation and granularity of disclosure needs to consider each country’s laws and capacity. It also needs to protect indi.vidual companies’ proprietary information. Where disaggregated industry reporting is required, we work with that government and other interested parties. Excessively detailed and disaggregated disclosure would necessitate the develop.ment of a separate set of global systems to capture, calculate, allocate, aggregate, and validate the data in ways that would not materially support transparency objectives. ExxonMobil estimates that project-speciﬁ c reporting could be both costly and difﬁ cult to implement. We believe that transparency disclosure rules should be written so as to not conﬂict with host country laws or contractual obligations. Project-speciﬁc disclosure called for in the Dodd-Frank ﬁnancial reform could place certain publicly traded, private sector companies at a competitive disadvantage from securing new business opportunities, both by disclosing sensitive commercial data and by imposing different reporting standards on private versus state-owned companies. National content Promoting social and economic development in the communities and countries where we operate is a business imperative. ExxonMobil works to build local capacity and sustain economic growth beyond the life cycle of our projects through comprehensive national content development programs. We design national content programs around three focus areas: workforce development, supplier development, and strategic commu.nity investments. We work collaboratively with host governments and other stakeholders to implement national content initiatives. To ensure a systematic, long-term approach, we integrate national content into overall project execution through the ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS). Every new upstream project in an emerg.ing market must develop a project-speciﬁ c national content plan. A plan consists of goals and objectives, an outline of the approach and requirements for the three focus areas, performance monitoring, and reporting. We integrate these plans into our day-to-day operating procedures, project strategies, and procurement efforts. Our National Content Development— Guidelines, Strategies, and Best Practices Guidebook contains the key elements of a national content strategy and plan; models and tools for the successful development of national content; and roles and responsibilities at the corporate, country, and project levels. ExxonMobil operates in countries with a diverse range of needs, challenges, and requirements. We carefully assess the social and economic conditions of each country and consider local factors such as regula.tory requirements, local development goals, Training Expenditures and Number of Employees Trained Spending (millions of dollars) Employees trained (participants) 08 09 10 11  $69 $71 $77  $80  08 09 10 11  48,000 52,000 61,000 65,000  Expatriates by Region of Origin Asia Pacific Africa/Middle East 508 225 Latin Europe America 1057 148 North America 1784 stakeholder expectations, business environ.ment, local capacity, and infrastructure. We incorporate the results of these assessments into our national content planning. During 2012, we plan to further reﬁne national content planning, roles and responsibilities, and national content integration within EMCAPS. Workforce development At ExxonMobil, workforce development means growing our pool of diverse and talented employees by recruiting and training locally. Where pertinent, our contracts include requirements that contractors and suppliers hire and train a national workforce. Our goal is not only to maximize recruiting, but also to develop and build workforce capacity, including technical experts and leaders who can add value locally and compete globally. To achieve this goal, our national content pro.grams must overcome obstacles in identifying and attracting skilled labor and profession.als, matching workforce skills to business requirements, and retaining and developing a local workforce over the long term. Local hiring. We believe we have a responsi.bility to build a legacy of economic progress by providing local employment opportunities, and investing in the workforce of our host countries. While local employment helps us meet our hiring needs, it also advances economic development and education in the countries where we operate. We implement a set of best practices to support local hiring, including on-campus recruiting, employee networking, trade organizations, referrals, and external search ﬁrms. Such practices have brought the percentage of nationals in our workforce in Kazakhstan to nearly 73 percent. By 2013, we expect Russian nationals to make up nearly 90 percent of the workforce at our Sakhalin operations. And, in Malaysia, 97 percent of our workforce is Malaysian, with 30 percent women. We aim to advance many of the host country nationals we train and hire through our national content program into roles in other countries to further develop their industry knowledge. In 2011, approximately 61 percent of our employees were located outside the United States. ExxonMobil expatriates (individuals working in a country other than their country of permanent residence) share their expertise and train and mentor nationals for operational and leadership roles. In 2011, expatriates accounted for approximately 5 percent of our global workforce. Training and development. Rigorous train.ing and development programs allow us to meet local hiring objectives and develop local workforces. We use a proven global train.ing curriculum customized to our operational environment. Training typically covers ExxonMobil culture, ethics, and business practices; safety practices; environmental regulations; the English language; skill and facility-speciﬁ c training; work assignments and on-the-job training; and mentoring and coach.ing. Over the long term, this helps us develop a pool of talented employees to meet future busi.ness needs both locally and around the world. In Angola, we work strategically to achieve our recruitment targets and to develop local employees to their maximum potential. Technical students take part in a two-to three-year intensive training program that includes traveling to Canada for specialized technical training. In 2011, 31 production technicians completed the 18-month course and moved to on-the-job training. An addi.tional 40 technicians began training in August 2011. We invite high-potential local employees to work on projects with other ExxonMobil afﬁliates to expose them to new opportuni.ties and enhance their leadership abilities. Since 2007, the proportion of local Angolan employees to expatriate employees has been steadily increasing. In 2011, Angolans made up 72 percent of our local workforce. Another example of capacity building is the technical skills development of local com.munities. ExxonMobil determined that young Nigerians, especially those living in the oil production areas of the country, lacked the education and technical skills necessary to compete for oil and gas industry jobs. To address this, we established a techni.cal training center in Eket, which has over time produced a large part of ExxonMobil’s Nigerian workforce and has provided skilled staff for other employers as well. To date, we have hired nearly 500 process, mechanical, instrumentation, and electrical graduates from the training center. More than 90 percent of our approximately 2000 employees in Nigeria are nationals. In Indonesia, our afﬁliate, Mobil Cepu Limited, is developing a national workforce to operate and manage the Banyu Urip central processing facilities, pipeline, and ﬂoating offshore storage terminal. The training program was established in 2007 utilizing a training center located at Cepu. It takes approximately 15 months to complete the English language and basic oil and gas skills training program. The trainees then move into production operations to continue to acquire skills and competencies for operating and maintaining the facility equipment. The program also involves train.ing at similar production operation facilities overseas, including the United States and Canada. This training program speciﬁ cally meets the Indonesian government’s objective to develop and maximize the country’s employ.ment opportunities. Ongoing corporate and technical training facilitates career development for all of our employees. In 2011, our major business lines together spent more than $79.9 million on employee training, reaching more than 65,000 participants. To strengthen our company’s technical capacity, approximately 39,000 participants attended more than 4600 professional technical training ses.sions. In addition, more than 3800 employees at various management levels participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training programs in 2011, 27 percent of whom were women and 60 percent non-U.S. employees. Our Upstream Technical Training Center is one of several world-class centers that deliver training programs every year on topics ranging from integrated exploration to reservoir simulation to fast-drill borehole management. Supplier development Supplier development programs ensure that our procurement activities strengthen host country economies and promote ExxonMobil as a partner of choice. Our ultimate goal is to build and maintain a reliable and globally competi.tive supply chain wherever we operate. This means overcoming obstacles such as limited infrastructure and inadequate ﬁ nancing for local businesses, and often requires helping our sup.pliers meet our safety standards. In 2011, a local manufacturer delivered and installed 2000 metric tons of specialized steel pipeline in the Edop-Idoho ﬁ eld offshore Nigeria, representing the ﬁrst time the oil and gas industry has used pipe made in-country for an offshore application. ExxonMobil’s Nigerian afﬁliate Mobil Producing Nigeria worked for more than four years with the manufacturer and a government agency to prepare the contractor to meet our speciﬁ ca.tions. This partnership has led to contracts creating hundreds of direct and indirect jobs for Nigerians. The local manufacturer has pending orders for more than 100 kilometers of specialized pipe, and it plans to continue to apply international technical standards as they work to meet local demand with globally competitive quality. The limited local fabrication capacity in Nigeria, along with strict certiﬁ cation standards, had been obstacles in establishing local manufac.turing capacity in the past. To overcome these hurdles, ExxonMobil arranged for joint visits with the manufacturer’s employees to South Africa and South Korea to study mill facili.ties and materials procurement approaches. They also sent contractor employees to the United States to learn more about engineer.ing standards. In Nigeria, ExxonMobil retained experienced inspectors to train the manu.facturer in proper pipe-milling procedures. International contractors participated as well in establishing local sources for iron ore for pipe coating and developing highly-skilled welders. As a result, extensive tests performed both locally and internationally on the pipes manu.factured in Nigeria conﬁrmed that they met or exceeded our technical speciﬁ cations. In some cases, ExxonMobil can best address infrastructure demands and develop local capacity by working with suppliers as a group. We have launched enterprise centers in Chad, Kazakhstan, and Papua New Guinea that develop the capacity of local suppliers and improve their business skills. The Papua New Guinea liqueﬁed natural gas (PNG LNG) project opened an Enterprise Center in April 2010, and this past year received their ﬁrst independent contract to conduct staff training. In 2005, ExxonMobil’s afﬁ liate, ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Inc., established an Enterprise Development Center (EDC) in the capital city, Astana, to help achieve the local govern.ment’s goal to diversify the economy beyond the oil and gas industry and support the development of small- and medium-sized businesses. Starting with ExxonMobil and the United States Agency for International Development’s joint sponsorship, the Astana EDC during the past six years has pro.vided training through International Labor Organization (ILO) certiﬁed technicians to 9000 entrepreneurs with a focus on female entrepreneurs. Based on the success of the center in Astana, ExxonMobil opened another EDC in 2011 in the oil and gas producing region of Atyrau, a traditionally underserved region of the country. Atyrau EDC plans to train more than 1600 entrepreneurs by year-end 2012. This initiative reinforces ExxonMobil’s commitment to developing the local economy. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Workforce development in Papua New Guinea At our PNG LNG project, we are exceeding our workforce forecast for Papua New Guinea nationals. The current construction workforce includes more than 8500 Papua New Guinean workers, approximately 60 percent of the total construction workforce. Training local workers is an essential element of our Papua New Guinea-speciﬁc national content plan. In 2011, six engineers from our Graduate Training Development program began operations and maintenance technician training. Our next nine recruits, including one woman, will begin their program in 2012. Gerard Schulze, one of our ﬁrst Papua New Guinean graduates, with a degree in mechanical engineering, described his experience. “When I started I had very little to no experience with the process and chemical engineering ﬁelds so it was a bit intimidating. The amount of manuals and documents that I had to read and understand in order to get up to speed with the process side of things was very overwhelming at ﬁrst. However, with the help of fellow engineers and technical training, things began to pick up. I look forward to the many challenges and career development opportunities that are yet to come.” For more information on our work.force development, visit pnglng.com. IMPLEMENTING STRATEGIC COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS Corporate Level Initiatives: 2011 Highlights ExxonMobil Malaria Initiative. Last year, with support from ExxonMobil, Malaria No More’s NightWatch program reached more than 5 million Cameroonians with educational messages about bed-net use. Partnering with local celebrities and community leaders, a message to remind people to use bed nets is broadcast at 9 p.m. each night when mosquitos take ﬂight. During 2012 this program will be imple.mented in other African countries. Please visit exxonmobil.com/malaria. Math and Science Initiative. In 2011, Astronaut Bernard Harris traveled to Africa to encourage more than 1000 students to reach their dreams by studying science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). Dr. Harris also met with community leaders, educators, and key policy makers to discuss the need for strong STEM initiatives and the positive effects they bring. Learn more about this historic visit, as well as other ExxonMobil programs supporting math and science edu.cation at exxonmobil.com/citizenship. Women’s Economic Opportunity Initiative. A new partnership with the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women will begin with comprehensive research on cellular phone technology. The ﬁndings from this research will identify mobile phone applications to advance women’s economic opportunities. During the second phase of the project these applications will be piloted in three countries: Nigeria, Egypt, and Indonesia. Please visit exxonmobil.com/womensinitiative. Focus on malaria prevention and control. International health ofﬁcials estimate malaria kills nearly 655,000 people annually—most of them pregnant women and children under the age of ﬁve. In addi.tion to the tremendous human costs, this disease leads to losses of productivity and economic opportunity in developing economies. Since 2000, ExxonMobil and the ExxonMobil Foundation have con.tributed more than $111 million toward the ﬁght against malaria. Our funding has allowed our projects and operations to reach more than 66 million people by training nearly 180,000 healthcare workers and providing 13.1 million bed nets, 1.6 million doses of anti-malarial drugs, and more than 875,000 rapid diagnostic kits. We also bring our expertise in business management to ensure desired results are achieved. The World Health Organization’s World Malaria Report 2010 shows a 10-percent decline in global malaria deaths between 2008 and 2009. While we are seeing some success in ending deaths from malaria, there is still more work to be done. In 2011, we awarded around $11 million to more than 25 organiza.tions across Africa and in the Asia Paciﬁc region. Work funded by these grants includes many types of malaria prevention and control initiatives like research into malaria vaccines and treatments and improved malaria prevention education. For example, $500,000 went to support a malaria diagnostic laboratory in Ghana, to beneﬁt efforts in the region. Strategic community investments Through public-private partnerships and ongoing stakeholder engagement, we work to improve social and economic conditions wherever we operate. This is the third element of our national content approach. We make strategic community investments at both the corporate and country level, and each serves different needs. Our corporate activities through the ExxonMobil Foundation include a focus on three global issues: women’s economic participation, advancing math and science education, and prevention and control of malaria. We selected these focus areas based on our ability to provide functional support beyond check writing, and each is linked closely to our continued operations. Women make up half the world’s population, yet earn only 10 percent of the world’s income. Math and science are increasingly important in today’s careers, yet students’ academic performance in these ﬁelds is declining. Malaria and its complications impact the household incomes of families in Africa. Each of these pressing issues threatens economies and communi.ties around the world. Helping to address these issues enables the communities around us to thrive. Our country-level community investments, stewarded locally, represent a key aspect of our national content strategy. We focus local investments on many of the social and economic challenges identiﬁed in our national content planning process. Around the world, country-speciﬁc investments address needs ranging from community water access to inoculations against disease. When determin.ing where and how to invest, we consider the development goals of each community and the beneﬁt to our operations. In Angola, we align our strategic community investments around the Angolan government’s priorities of education, health, environment, agriculture, and family, which directly impact the individual Country-Led Initiatives: 2011 Highlights Mexico. The Ministry of the Environment and Centre for Development and Population Activities (CEDPA) have formed a unique alliance with ExxonMobil to support the country and the company’s common priorities: environmental stewardship and women’s economic participation. The week-long workshop focuses on training key members of the Ministry of Environment's Advisory Council for Sustainable Development in order to strengthen their communities via diverse projects that address a wide range of environmental and social issues. Since 2009, 48 men and women from the Council have participated in programs on advocacy, gender, and the environment, all of which are emerging issues in Mexico. well-being and thus the productivity of the Angolan work force. For example, more than 70,000 Angolans now have direct access to modern health services, thanks to a $950,000 contribution to build the ﬁrst medical center in the Andulo municipality, Bié province. Our worldwide spending includes contribu.tions to nonproﬁt organizations; we also invest in social projects through various joint-venture arrangements, production-shar.ing agreements, and projects operated by others. In 2011, Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and afﬁliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation provided a combined $234 million in cash, goods, and services worldwide. Of the total, $124 million supported communities Indonesia. ExxonMobil’s afﬁliates created a microﬁnance program to develop the entrepreneurial skills of Indonesian women living in underprivileged communities. These women normally would not qualify for loans through Indonesia’s banking system due to their lack of a credit history or steady employment. Additionally, many Indonesians fear negative judgment from taking a bank loan. This microﬁnance program makes small collateral-free loans and equips new borrowers with ﬁnancial skills through peer mentorship. Through the end of 2011, more than 15,000 Indonesian women have borrowed approximately $500,000 with close to a 100 percent loan performance ratio. By helping women overcome cultural barriers and gain community recognition, the program leads to better outcomes for families and the surrounding community. in the United States and $110 million sup.ported communities in other countries. For more information on both our corporate and country-speciﬁc strategic community invest.ments, please see our website. Employee volunteerism and giving Through company-sponsored volunteer pro.grams, more than 23,000 ExxonMobil employ.ees, retirees, and their families donated more than 728,900 volunteer hours to 5300 chari.table organizations in 43 countries in 2011. Of this, 11,000 participants donated more than 168,100 hours to more than 1100 organizations in countries outside the United States. 2011 Community Investments by Focus Area (millions of dollars) Arts and culture $43.7 Civic and community Other $63.0 $18.5 Public Environment policy $6.0 Health $7.8 $24.4 $56.7 United appeals and workplace giving $8.6 2011 Community Investments by Geographic Region (millions of dollars) United States $161.3 Canada Europe/ $13.3 Caspian $30.1 Latin America $1.7 Africa/ Asia Pacific Middle East $26.1 $45.9 1Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief, and employee giving programs. Employees and retirees donated $44 million through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief, and employee giving programs. This includes more than $3.6 million donated by ExxonMobil employees, retirees, dealers, and distributors to support disaster-relief efforts in response to the magnitude 9.0 earthquake that hit Japan in 2011. When combined with corporate donations, ExxonMobil—together with our employees and retirees—contributed $278 million to community investments worldwide. Explore enhanced web content at exxonmobil.com/citizenship HIGHLIGHTS 100% of registered grievances in Papua New Guinea are investigated and tracked through ﬁ nal closure PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW 5 number of countries in which training was provided for new lead country managers 79% of our private security personnel contracts have been enhanced to include provisions to address human rights concerns What we said in 2010 • Assess company policies and processes relative to the United Nations (U.N.) Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights • Complete human rights training in priority countries and assess follow up needs for those who received training in the last three years • Develop a computer based human rights training module for efﬁ cient, wider availability . Update the Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard What we did in 2011 • Reviewed company policies and processes relative to the U.N. Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and determined areas for continuous improvement • Completed human rights training in sensitive countries, with additional sessions for new lead country managers in ﬁ ve countries • Broadened human rights training programs to reach a more diverse group of personnel . Updated the Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard What we plan to do • Continue to review existing practices toward making appropriate adjustments relative to expectations under the U.N. Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights • Continue to update human rights training for sensitive countries, as well as means of reaching broader base of employees with duties relevant to human rights issues . Launch the Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard across all the upstream companies and continue to develop associated guidance Oil and gas development requires operating in a variety of cultures and economic structures around the world. Our approach to engaging with the communities near our sites demonstrates our funda.mental respect for human rights and our belief that strong, informed communities lead to a stable business environment. Community impacts and relationships Oil and gas projects and operations can affect individuals, communities, and the environment. We strive to identify and mitigate potentially negative impacts and enhance the positive outcomes of our activities. By doing our job to the highest ethical standards, complying with applicable host-country regulatory require.ments, and respecting local cultures and customs, we build supportive relationships in the communities where we operate. ExxonMobil’s upstream socioeconomic man.agement process covers: • Risk assessment and management; • Human rights; • Community relations; • Indigenous peoples; • Cultural heritage and diversity; • Land use and resettlement; • Economic development; and, • Transparency and corruption. We address these issues by adhering to corporate policies and expectations (page 32), complying with host-country regulatory requirements, applying universally recognized principles, engaging with external groups (page 7), and building local economic capacity (page 38). In 2011, we revised our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard and expanded its application to all of the upstream companies. The Standard pro.vides a set of best management practices and minimum expectations for the upstream companies. We believe a consistent approach helps our contractors, partners, and employ.ees effectively manage socioeconomic issues and maintain our global license to operate. We used the recent update as an opportunity to enhance the usability of the Standard, incorporate progressing international protocols and expectations, and expand the application of the Standard across ExxonMobil’s Upstream business. Respecting human rights Our approach to human rights is consistent with the policy framework outlined in the 2008 report of John Ruggie, the U.N. Special Representative on Business and Human Rights. That framework recognizes the distinctly different roles of governments and business with regard to human rights—the gov.ernments’ duty to protect human rights and the corporations’ responsibility to respect them. The U.N. Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights were released in 2011 to provide further guidance on implementing the “protect, respect, remedy” framework. These Principles emphasize operational due diligence: corporations should be aware of potential adverse impacts and implement prevention measures. We plan to formalize an Upstream Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) Technical Requirement in 2012, and to ensure that our upstream projects address any human rights impact assessment gaps that may exist. Providing human rights training. Our human rights awareness training program is based on ExxonMobil guidelines, practices, and priorities. Training focuses primarily on employee awareness, company policies and approaches, company resources, and our commitment to respect human rights. Each session also includes information on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the requirements of our Framework on Security and Human Rights, and imple.menting the Framework in a given country. In 2011, we continued our approach of provid.ing human rights training to key afﬁ liates. Our focus has been on training lead country managers and certain staff. In 2011, such training was provided in ﬁve countries; we also delivered dedicated human rights training to a broader scope of employees working in Papua New Guinea. In 2012, as we work to implement new processes and guidance under our revised Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard, we also plan to update our human rights training to reﬂect changing international guidance and to reach a broader group of employees. Policies and labor practices. Our commitment to human rights includes our workforce and is supported by our Standards of Business Conduct, which is consistent with the spirit and intent of the U.N. Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. ExxonMobil’s Statement on Labor and the Workplace articulates our support for the principles of the ILO Declaration, speciﬁ cally the elimination of child labor, forced labor, and workplace discrimination, and the right to freedom of association and collective bar.gaining. We require all employees to comply with our policies. For information on our sup.pliers, please see the case study on integrity in the supply chain (page 36). Addressing security concerns Security and respect for human rights can and should be compatible. ExxonMobil is committed to ensuring the security of company personnel and operations in a manner that respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. Framework on Security and Human Rights. We actively participate in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, a forum that provides for discussion and information-sharing among extractive industry sector companies, governments, and nongovernmental organizations. These Voluntary Principles afﬁrm the constructive role that business can play in supporting and advancing human rights and security. ExxonMobil’s Statement and Framework on Security and Human Rights helps implement the Voluntary Principles. The Framework includes guidance on working with host government security personnel, instituting memoranda of understanding regarding host government-assigned security personnel, developing approaches for interacting with private security providers, and reporting and putting in place recordkeeping templates. Approximately 79 percent of our private secu.rity personnel contracts include requirements to address human rights concerns. Establishing strong partnerships with the local community is the foundation of the Papua New Guinea liqueﬁed natural gas (PNG LNG) project’s security strategy. We have faced some security challenges as construction continues. We address these challenges through the implementation of our Security Plan, which is regularly monitored and reviewed. Building on our experience in Papua New Guinea and other regions, ExxonMobil has implemented a range of physical security countermeasures and con.tingency plans. During 2011, we strengthened security measures at our PNG LNG project facilities and worked to enhance police presence. To help build the skills of Papua New Guinea security personnel, selected team members attended a Site Security Contact Conference in Melbourne, Australia, while others attended a specialized maritime safety and rescue training course in Brisbane, Australia. We also supported a course whereby Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary instructors trained line ofﬁcers on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Papua New Guinea grievance mechanisms The PNG LNG project uses a grievance process managed by ExxonMobil afﬁ liate, Esso Highlands Limited. We capture concerns and complaints from local communities and manage them through a computer-based Information Management System (IMS). We investigate and respond to every grievance received, tracking and recording all grievances through ﬁ nal closure. To reach those in the more remote areas of Papua New Guinea potentially affected by the project, we introduced a special grievance card. These cards record the same information as the IMS, but can be easily used in the ﬁeld and sent back to the Port Moresby-based Community Affairs department for processing. Sometimes, after careful analysis, we determine that a grievance relates to third parties unrelated to the project. The Papua New Guinea government is working to place govern.ment ofﬁcers in the ﬁeld to assist with such concerns. In other cases, we recognize an area for additional focus and work with the grievant to implement a remedy. As may be expected with a project of this 2011 Percentage of Grievances scale and complexity, and in a country with Registered by Category at PNG LNG customary land rights, many community con-Social Project cerns relate to compensation for land access. 9% 4% Government Additionally, access to business develop-Misinformation 9% 5% ment and employment opportunities can be Other Security 15% a source of economic-related grievances. 1% This is particularly the case where onshore pipelines are being installed. Many jobs Environment Land 13% associated with pipeline construction require 27% short-term, highly skilled labor. Local commu-Economic nities often object to the limited employment 17% opportunities available to them as a result. Community development projects are helping to address these types of concerns. Consultation with stakeholders We aim to help develop human, social, and economic capacity in a way that beneﬁ ts people, communities, and our business. Achieving this goal requires collaborative partnerships and active consultation with a range of stakeholders. Our Best Practices in External Affairs (BPEA) initiative focuses on building positive external relationships and is our strategic planning and management tool for external affairs. It governs community awareness programs, government relations, and national content development. The BPEA process identiﬁes the speciﬁ c needs, expecta.tions, and interests of host communities and aligns these needs with our community invest.ment efforts. Ensuring mutual understanding, trust, and respect in our stakeholder relationships means providing local groups and individu.als with a communication channel to voice and resolve concerns related to a develop.ment project without fear of retribution. Our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard includes provisions for establish.ing a systematic and transparent grievance mechanism process. Indigenous peoples. ExxonMobil is commit.ted to engaging with indigenous communities in a manner that is respectful of their cultures and customs. Through open consultation, we work to understand and incorporate indig.enous perspectives into project planning, design, execution, and ongoing operations. Our approach is consistent with the prin.ciples of the ILO Convention 169 Concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries, the U.N. Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, and the World Bank Operational Policy and Bank Procedure on Indigenous Peoples. Our proj.ects and operations in Alaska, Canada, Papua New Guinea, and Sakhalin Island all involve working in communities of indigenous peoples. Often, the ﬁrst consultation with any group of indigenous people is to determine how they prefer to be engaged. Each community establishes its own preference for how often they meet with us, how long, and whom they choose to represent the community’s wishes. In Alaska, we established a working group with the indigenous community in Kaktovik, a village of about 300 residents located in the region of our North Slope Point Thomson project. The working group, comprising leadership from Kaktovik and ExxonMobil, meets several times a year. At the same time, we conduct community meetings, open to all residents, twice a year to provide project updates. At Kearl in Alberta, Canada, Imperial Oil consulted with the First Nations’ Industry Relations Corporations to develop a Reclamation Planning Group. The planning group is just one of several mechanisms for seeking indigenous input at Kearl (page 10). We work to respond to community concerns throughout the life cycle of a project or opera.tion. During exploration and development, we alter the project design where possible to respond to community concerns. In Papua New Guinea, we worked with community members who practice subsistence ﬁ shing to preserve access to local ﬁshing areas during jetty construction and modiﬁed project plans in order to avoid a popular ﬁ shing reef. Once our operations commence, we work to mitigate the risk of those operations on local populations. For example, in Sakhalin, Exxon Neftegas Limited’s (ENL) main opera.tions are within 20 kilometers of the Uilta, an indigenous people of 350 representa.tives. For many centuries, the Uilta have captured wild reindeer, domesticated them, and migrated with the herds across northern Sakhalin. To support operations on Sakhalin Island, ENL built a bridge across Chayvo Bay. Before the bridge was built, the reindeer herders crossed the bay by boat while their reindeer swam. ENL now stops all trafﬁc to allow the herders to access the bridge on their annual reindeer drive. We are sensitive to our local communities’ concerns about balancing their cultural heritage with the need for economic devel.opment, even after our operations have ceased. Wherever we work with indigenous peoples, we support both local employment initiatives and cultural heritage programs through national content and strategic com.munity investments, respectively. In Horn River, Canada, we encourage local supplier development through procurement and safety workshops, while supporting the Annual Summer Gathering and Trappers’ Rendezvous as part of the First Nations’ efforts to pass traditional knowledge from one generation to the next. At the same time that we train and hire local workers and suppliers in Papua New Guinea, we work to preserve the country’s signiﬁcant cultural heritage. To this end, we follow a Cultural Heritage Management Plan for our project activities and implement a cul.tural heritage tracking system, which collates and manages data collected since 2009. The Cultural Heritage Management Plan describes procedures for pre-construction surveys and the protocol for managing chance-ﬁ nds of heritage value. We provide cultural heritage awareness and chance-ﬁnds training for applicable project personnel, including infor.mation on types of Papua New Guinea cultural heritage sites and identiﬁ cation, classiﬁ ca.tion, and documentation of chance-ﬁ nds. We train earth-moving equipment operators and employ spotters to help recognize and identify cultural heritage artifacts and conduct arche.ological salvage activities at sites discovered during pre-construction surveys. Land use and resettlement. We respect property rights in the countries where we operate, including those of traditional land users. The IFC revised Performance Standards, effective in 2012, requires clients to obtain the free, prior, and informed consent of indigenous peoples before initiating devel.opment activities on traditional lands. We are interested and engaged in the manner these new IFC Standards will be implemented. While the updated Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard includes consider.ations for securing free, prior, and informed consultation, our goal is to obtain the consent of local communities and other key impacted stakeholders regarding our operations. In practice, we strive for broad consensus and seek to ensure participative consultation as a key part of our planning and operating processes. We minimize involuntary resettlement through project design; when resettlement is unavoid.able, we seek to ensure the appropriate restoration of the livelihoods of displaced persons. In all cases when resettlement is unavoidable (e.g., for our PNG LNG project), we apply international best practice aligned with the IFC’s Performance Standards, in conjunction with applicable host-country regulatory requirements. When physical and economic displacement occurs, we develop and implement resettle.ment action plans that include landowner consultation, and surveying and mapping of housing structures, gardens, and other assets. In Papua New Guinea, we negotiate appropri.ate compensation with affected landowners or users in the presence of a third-party law ﬁrm provided by the project. The resettled landowner or user then identiﬁes a new home and garden site. They are provided assistance to re-establish a household and gardens at the new location, including the introduction of improved agricultural techniques. We conduct livelihood restoration activities and monitor and evaluate progress for two years against a pre-resettlement baseline. Thus far in Papua New Guinea, 17 locations were identiﬁ ed where resettlement is deemed necessary. Explore enhanced web content at exxonmobil.com/citizenship Operations Integrity: Delivering Value in Downstream and Chemical Operations ExxonMobil s integrated Singapore facilities produce the base materials found in products used by millions of consumers every day all over the world. Employees and contractors at our integrated manufacturing complex in Singapore focus on efﬁcient, safe, and environmentally responsible operations by using worldwide expectations established through ExxonMobil’s Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS). This site tour captures operations integrity in action, including the challenges of integrated manufacturing. Overview of the Singapore integrated facility ExxonMobil has operated in Singapore for over 40 years. Integration of our reﬁ nery and chemical facilities allows us to upgrade each molecule to its highest value as we leverage the advantages of a global functional organization and co-located manufacturing. The 605-thousand-barrel.per-day reﬁnery produces primarily gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, propane, naphtha base oil, asphalt, and wax, and serves as the chemical plant’s primary source of feedstock. The chemical plant in turn produces the basic building blocks for high-performance plastics and specialty chemicals used to make consumer goods such as clothing, upholstery, diapers, food storage, and cell phones. Our ongoing, multi-billion-dollar chemical plant expansion in Singapore is the largest in the history of ExxonMobil Chemical and will more than double the plant’s capacity to satisfy Asia Paciﬁ c’s growing petrochemical demand. When complete, Singapore will be ExxonMobil’s highest capacity integrated reﬁning and chemical complex. Safety, health, and the workplace Process safety. OIMS Element 2—Risk Assessment and Management—requires the facility to manage process safety at the site through the identiﬁ cation, mitigation, and elimination of hazards and risks. ExxonMobil uses a comprehensive risk assessment process to identify hazards, assess risk levels, and follow up to ensure risk management decisions are implemented. With the philosophy of “we cannot ﬁx what we do not know,” empha.sis is placed on a healthy risk discovery process. Hazard identiﬁcation comes from multiple sources, including operational unit hazard reviews, equipment inspections, ﬁeld audits, learnings from incidents and near misses, and employee and contrac.tor input. Workers also undergo on-site, hands-on training to ensure they can perform the work competently and safely. And, we focus on effective procedures, including best practices for higher-risk activities, such as start-up of operations, which is a key area of emphasis as we bring new facilities online. Contractor safety. OIMS Element 8— Third-Party Services—requires the facility to evaluate and select third-party services using criteria that include an assessment of capabilities to perform work in a safe and environmentally sound manner. ExxonMobil employees promote their safety culture every day. While 2011 was not an incident-free year, the site implemented a series of safety initiatives and remains dedicated to the goal of achieving zero injuries. The application of OIMS principles drives expectations for safe performance of our employees and contractors. This petrochemical expansion shows how all workers share ExxonMobil’s safety values on-site. In mid-2010, the project’s on-site workforce peaked at more than 22,000. Employees and contractors, working side-by-side, came from nearly 30 countries, spanning six continents, and speaking more than eight languages. Despite these challenges, the expansion project workers achieved about 64 million cumulative hours worked with no lost-time incidents at the end of 2011. Employees and contractors are achiev.ing safety results through programs implemented from the start of the petrochemical expansion. An on-site Safety Training Center helps workers meet performance expectations by helping them understand hazards and safe work practices. Workers must attend and pass an Enhanced Safety Orientation Course that includes modules on safety induc.tion and oil and petrochemical safety. We use safety leading indicators to steward safety performance. Also, employees and contractors attend events, such as the project’s yearly safety carnival, to refresh safety fundamentals. We recognize safety challenges will arise as the site moves from construction to opera.tions. Our detailed execution plans prepare us to address these challenges in a disci.plined manner, and uphold our commitment to safety in every decision we make. Environmental performance OIMS Element 6—Operations and Maintenance—requires operation of facilities within established parameters and according to regulations, calling for effective procedures, structured inspec.tion and maintenance programs, reliable equipment, and qualiﬁed personnel to con.sistently execute procedures and practices. Singapore is natural-resource constrained, which poses operational challenges for land use, energy efﬁciency, water consump.tion, and air emissions. ExxonMobil has successfully addressed these challenges through OIMS by focusing on ﬂ awless operations and continuous improvement. Built primarily on reclaimed land, the chemical plant generates the majority of its electricity and steam on-site, mostly through cogeneration. Once online, the pet.rochemical expansion is expected to meet both plants’ steam and electricity needs through additional cogeneration capacity. The chemical plant’s third-party vendors assist in reusing solid carbon waste. In 2011, instead of disposing it into Singapore’s limited landﬁlls, we sent about 6000 metric tons, or 30 percent of carbon waste, for reuse, mainly for energy recovery purposes. Freshwater is scarce in Singapore, so we reduce its use on-site through innova.tive measures. In 2011, we completed a seawater intake system for the petrochem.ical expansion. The system will reduce potable water consumption and our use of water treatment chemicals. The project’s wastewater treatment unit will also use a membrane bioreactor to treat wastewater, resulting in high-quality efﬂuent that can be recycled and used as cooling water. Managing climate change risks OIMS Element 6 also requires the busi.ness to establish goals for environmental performance, including greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The facility must identify alternatives, if applicable, and employ envi.ronmental improvement initiatives. Reducing energy consumption is a part of operations integrity. Projects executed by Singapore’s Energy Special Emphasis Team saved approximately $4.5 million in 2011. Since 2002, we have achieved a 16 percentage-point reduction in energy intensity. During 2012, we plan to reduce this by another 1 percent. The ﬂare system at the Singapore’s inte.grated site serves as a safety relief valve for unplanned interruptions, such as a loss of power or the plant being unable to process or reﬁne recovered materials. In 2010, a cross-functional ﬂare reduction team enhanced ﬂare monitoring and utilization, and revitalized the ﬂare gas compressor system. Flare unit engineers monitor and troubleshoot the ﬂare system daily. Site management encourages ﬂ aring reduction goals and incorporates ﬂaring topics into daily employee operational brieﬁ ngs. The reﬁnery’s 40-percent ﬂ are reduction in 2010 versus 2009 was equivalent to a 14,700 metric ton reduction of carbon dioxide (CO2). In 2011, the site achieved a ﬂare reduction equal to 7800 metric tons of CO2, or 32 percent, compared with 2010. At the chemical plant, we reduced ﬂaring nearly 50 percent since 2007 and 12 percent from 2010. In addition to addressing community concerns, ﬂaring reductions allow us to decrease GHG emissions and efﬁ ciently recover our process streams. We plan to continue evaluating ﬂ aring sources and analyzing system deﬁciency items to further reduce ﬂaring in 2012. VIGNES SWAMINATHAR ENERGY LEADER, SINGAPORE REFINERY I start my day by reviewing information from the data visualiza.tion program and shift superintendent reports to understand the previous day’s operations. This information is used to identify issues related to energy opti.mization and helps us propose steps to improve our performance. Managing energy projects can be challenging, but it is a fascinating role. I interface with engineers from different func.tions to determine the optimal energy projects. My role requires long-term planning and looking at the “bigger, future picture,” with results often not visible in the near term. But it is always fulﬁlling to see what we’ve achieved after many months of planning. Not only do we generate signiﬁ cant energy savings for the plant, but I’m also happy to be part of the larger effort to help reduce our emissions and envi.ronmental footprint. The addition of a second world-scale petrochemi.cal facility in Singapore to our existing integrated operations will help meet increasing demand in Asia. 