Environmental Performance*  Marine vessel spills (owned and long-term leased), number of hydrocarbon spills > 1 barrel  0  0  0  0  •  16  Other spills (not from marine vessels), number of oil, chemical, and drilling ﬂuid spills > 1 barrel  211  242  210  484  •  16  Hydrocarbons spilled (oil spilled), thousands of barrels  20  17  8  18  •  16  Other spills, thousands of barrels  0  1  40  2  •  N/A  Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons  1.8  1.4  1.3  1.3  •  N/A  Sulfur dioxide (SO2) emitted, millions of metric tons  0.19  0.16  0.14  0.13  •  17  Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons  0.15  0.13  0.12  0.14  •  17  Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons  0.25  0.22  0.22  0.23  •  17  VOCs emitted, metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production 2008  2009  2010  2011  Interpretation  Page #  Safety, Health, and the Workplace  Fatalities – employees  0  4  0  0  •  27  Fatalities – contractors  5  4  3  9  •  27  3 Fatal accident rate – total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)  0.011  0.017  0.006  0.017  •  N/A  4 Lost-time incident rate – employees (per 200,000 work hours)  0.054  0.043  0.047  0.060  •  27  4 Lost-time incident rate – contractors (per 200,000 work hours)  0.049  0.040  0.031  0.087  •  27  4 Lost-time incident rate – total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)  0.051  0.041  0.038  0.076  •  N/A  4 Total recordable incident rate – employees (per 200,000 work hours)  0.37  0.32  0.24  0.29  •  27  4 Total recordable incident rate – contractors (per 200,000 work hours)  0.49  0.39  0.34  0.41  •  27  4 Total recordable incident rate – total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)  0.43  0.36  0.30  0.37  •  N/A  5 Number of regular employees at year end, thousands  80  81  84  82  31  5 Percent of workforce – non-U.S.  63  63  60  61  30  5 Percent women – global workforce (excluding company-operated retail stores)  25  26  26  26  •  30  6 Percent management and professional new hires – women  39  38  40  44  •  30  6 Percent management and professional new hires – non-U.S.  69  63  70  79  30  Corporate Governance  Corporate political contributions – U.S. state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars  0.45  0.49  1.10  0.51  35  Percent of shares represented at Corporation’s Annual Meeting  84.8  82.9  80.7  81.9  34  Economic Development  Number of employee participants in corporate and technical training, thousands  48  52  61  65  40  Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars  69  71  77  80  40  U.S. spending with minority- and women-owned businesses, millions of dollars  603  863  812  869  •  37  7 Community investments, millions of dollars  225.2  235.0  237.1  278.4  •  43  United States  144.6  143.0  154.8  161.3  43  Rest of world  80.6  92.0  82.3  117.1  43  8 Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries  8  8  7  7  39  Human Rights and Managing Community Impacts  Number of countries in which afﬁliates received dedicated human rights awareness training  7  8  1  5  •  45  Percent of private security contracts with enhanced language  50+  60  75  79  •  45  Notes on performance table: 1 The above net equity greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions metric was introduced in 2011 as a replacement for the direct equity GHG metric. Information has been restated back to 2008 according to this new metric. The net equity GHG metric includes direct and imported GHG emissions and excludes emissions from exports, including Hong Kong Power. 2 ExxonMobil reports GHG emissions on a net equity basis for all our business operations, reﬂecting our percent ownership in an asset. Environmental, health, and safety data are reported for our afﬁliates and those operations under direct ExxonMobil management and operational control. 3 For the past several years, including 2008-2011, ExxonMobil's fatal accident rate has been equivalent to our fatal incident rate. 4 Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information available at the time of publication. 5 Regular employees are deﬁ ned as active executive, management, professional, technical, and wage employees who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil and are covered by ExxonMobil’s beneﬁ t plans and programs. 6 Recruiting numbers for 2011 exclude XTO Energy Inc. 7 Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief, and employee giving programs. 8 In countries where ExxonMobil has an upstream business presence. *Some uncertainty exists in environmental data depending on measurement methods. Data represent best available information at the time of publication. Operations Integrity: Developing Unconventional Resources at Kearl Meeting growing demand for energy requires signiﬁ cant investment in unconventional sources. At Kearl, our employees and contractors work hard to ensure ﬂ awless execu tion of our OIMS Framework. ExxonMobil’s Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) provides a top-to-bottom framework for addressing safety, security, health, environmental, and social risks in every aspect of our business— from developing an oil sands project to selecting a supplier. This site tour illustrates operations integrity in an upstream project, including the challenges associated with oil sands development. Overview of the Kearl oil sands project The oil sands in Canada contain the third largest oil reserves in the world after Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. The Kearl lease, covering 200 square kilometers and located 70 kilometers north of Fort McMurray in Alberta, contains among the largest and highest-quality of these deposits. ExxonMobil and its afﬁliate Imperial Oil Limited are developing the Kearl project to recover an estimated 4.6 billion barrels of heavy oil called bitumen from what are commonly referred to as oil sands—natu.rally occurring mixtures of water, sand, clay, and bitumen. At Kearl, Imperial is constructing facilities to recover the bitumen, convert it to a marketable product, and send it via pipe.line to reﬁning facilities to be transformed into energy and chemical products. Kearl’s deposits are close enough to the surface to be extracted efﬁciently using an open-pit mining technique. Production is planned to begin in late 2012 with a rate near 110 thousand barrels of bitumen per day. Further expansion will bring the rate to 345 thousand barrels per day, with a more than 40-year project lifespan. Environmental performance OIMS Element 2—Risk Assessment and Management—requires the project to conduct risk assessments in order to identify and address potential hazards to personnel, facilities, the public, and the environment. Element 6—Operations and Maintenance—requires that we identify and manage signiﬁcant environmental aspects as speciﬁed in an Environmental Impact Assessment and consistent with regulatory requirements. The surface mining technique used at Kearl, along with its location in Alberta’s boreal forest, poses challenges that require careful environmental planning and management. As part of the project planning phase, Imperial conducted a comprehensive Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) that high.lighted challenges in land management, environmental protection, and cultural heritage for indigenous people whose traditional lands overlie the Kearl lease area. Through the application of OIMS and to meet regulatory requirements, Imperial began progressively reclaiming land during early construction to ensure an ongoing and self-sustaining boreal forest. Kearl’s end-of-mine-life reclamation plans have been integrated with its neighbors’ plans to protect the surrounding watershed. Although the project has not begun pro.duction, Imperial has already permanently reclaimed 6.6 hectares of land with an additional 55 hectares undergoing pro.gressive reclamation in the following areas: Soil. As we mine, we salvage and store soil for reclamation. To date, we have stored more than 14 million cubic meters of usable soil. The tailings area, con.structed to hold water, clay, and sand following processing, will eventually be reclaimed along with the mine site. Vegetation. Kearl participates in a regional seed collection program to grow native seedlings for planting during reclamation. Through participation in the vegeta.tion cooperative, Imperial has already collected enough seeds to grow approxi.mately 4 million trees and shrubs and has already planted more than 22,000. Wildlife. We protect wildlife near the development site by alerting employees to sensitive areas and enforcing speed limits on our roadways. Kearl also uses a state-of-the-art bird detection and deter.rent system in the tailings and process areas to direct migratory birds away. Fisheries. A portion of the site’s develop.ment disrupts ﬁsh habitat. After extensive stakeholder consultation, Imperial is constructing the ﬁrst of three lakes, each deeper than Kearl Lake, for ﬁsh to winter. In addition, we are relocating ﬁ sh from exist.ing habitat—totaling about 10,800 small ﬁ sh to date. Water use. Freshwater required for pro.duction comes from the Athabasca River. Less than 4 percent of the river’s ﬂ ow is allocated to industrial users, with Kearl using under 0.5 percent. When in produc.tion, we plan to maximize the recycling of processed water so that about 80 percent will be recycled water. Kearl will also have a three-month, on-site water storage facil.ity to minimize water withdrawals during the winter low-ﬂ ow period. In March 2012, Imperial, along with 11 other major oil sands companies, plans to sign the Canadian Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) in order to pursue enhanced collaboration in water use and treatment, tailings management, reclamation, and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reductions. Managing climate change risks OIMS Element 6—Operations and Maintenance—requires the project to establish goals for environmental perfor.mance, including GHGs. The project must identify alternatives, if applicable, and employ environmental improvement initiatives. Some have voiced concerns regarding the potential GHG emissions associ.ated with oil sands development. In fact, a September 2010 report by IHS CERA noted that “the average oil sands import to the United States has well-to-wheels life cycle GHG emissions about 6 percent higher than the average crude reﬁ ned in the United States.” A project designed like Kearl—using advanced mining tech.niques, energy-saving cogeneration, and producing diluted bitumen without an upgrader—will result in about the same life cycle GHG emissions as many other oils. Technologies applied at Kearl could signiﬁcantly reduce production-related emissions. We estimate that Kearl’s cogeneration facility will reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by half a million metric tons per year compared to purchased power for the ﬁrst phase of the project. In order to create a pipeline-ready product, Imperial will apply a proprietary parafﬁnic froth treatment tech.nology designed to remove enough of the asphaltenes and ﬁne solids to produce a crude oil suitable for sale, without needing an upgrader. Processing bitumen only once reduces life cycle GHG emissions. Surface Soil Human rights and managing community impacts OIMS Element 10—Community Awareness and Emergency Preparedness—requires that the project seek, recognize, and address community expectations and concerns about our operations, including those of the workforce, in a timely manner. Under Canadian regulations, stakeholders are encouraged to participate in public interest hearings to share their opinions related to a project. Kearl is located on the traditional lands of some of Canada’s indigenous peoples, col.lectively referred to as Aboriginal peoples, a term used to describe Canada’s First Nation, Metis, and Inuit people. We developed Aboriginal Relations Guiding Principles and Guidelines and use a consultation protocol to ensure respectful consideration of Aboriginal peoples’ concerns. Part of the engagement process includes establishing advisory committees with Aboriginal community residents. These committees allow for unﬁ ltered com.munication and input from Aboriginal stakeholders. Site tours and quarterly meetings are also crucial to our continued engagement. Since 2008, Imperial has held about 24 meetings and eight site tours for community residents. Each of the ﬁve First Nations in the region also has a consultation ofﬁce called an Industry Relations Corporation (IRC), funded by companies working on oil sands developments in the region. The IRCs help review project details and relay feedback or concerns from First Nation people. Imperial has established Bilateral Agreements with four local Aboriginal communities. These agreements include We mine to access ore deposits, while progressively reclaiming the land back to a self sustaining boreal forest ecosystem. provisions for ﬁnancial support to com.munity projects, community input into project planning, as well as business and employment opportunities. Imperial consulted with the IRCs to develop a Reclamation Planning Group (RPG), which met four times in 2011. The RPG helped increase our understanding of the Aboriginal culture and its historic con.nection to the land. Members of the RPG raised concerns during the reclamation planning process, and identiﬁ ed impor.tant features of the reclaimed landscape. For example, the RPG provided input into plans for future use, asking that we include islands in a man-made lake upon which moose can protect their calves. Imperial is assessing this recommenda.tion in future planning. HIGHLIGHTS 0  100%  9500  spills from owned  of our 115 major operating  active site remediation  and long-term leased  sites were screened for water  projects stewarded  marine vessels  and biodiversity sensitivity  by ExxonMobil  Environmental Services  PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW  What we said in 2010 • Evaluate and implement lessons learned from the 2010 BP Deepwater Horizon incident • Focus on infrastructure upgrades and special programs at sites with the highest spill rates • Study practices to minimize waste generation and increase reuse and recycling in our Lubricants and Specialties (L&S) business • Work to certify remediated sites as protected wildlife habitat and conservation areas What we did in 2011 • Took a leadership role in developing industry recommendations on improving oil spill response capabilities • Responded to the breach in the Silvertip Pipeline in Montana • Assessed biodiversity and water supply risk using improved tools • Screened 200 U.S. surplus sites to identify those with conservation value • Continued to study practices to minimize waste generation and increase reuse and recycling in our L&S business • Worked with industry and the Ground Water Protection Council to develop FracFocus, a public reporting system for fracturing ﬂ uid components What we plan to do • Continue to implement recommen.dations on improving oil spill response capabilities • Continue to evaluate remaining U.S. and non U.S. surplus sites for potential conservation value and suitability for conservation disposition • Review freshwater consumption rates to identify opportunities for responsible use at our major upstream sites • Finalize our biodiversity offset program in Papua New Guinea related to our project activities • Continue our technology development focused on oil sands Energy development—critical to social and economic progress—requires careful environmental management. Across our diverse global operations, we are committed to ﬁnding ways to continually reduce environmental impacts. Our environmental stewardship processes are based on detailed analyses that include environmental and social aspect assessments and risk management. Environmental stewardship through responsible management We believe that through careful environ.mental management we gain a competitive advantage. ExxonMobil’s Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) provides a structure for managing safety, security, health, environmental, and social risks. Using OIMS, we describe work processes, identify and mitigate risks, and develop critical proce.dures. OIMS is consistent with the standard for environmental management systems established by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO 14001:2004). Our Corporate Environment Policy and OIMS Framework set expectations that projects will be developed, constructed, and oper.ated using approved standards that embody responsible development, especially in loca.tions where regulations do not adequately protect the environment. Our Protect Tomorrow. Today. initiative guides our management processes for maintain.ing responsible environmental performance. Through the Environmental Business Planning process, our management drives environmental performance considerations into the full life cycle of our operations, from initial impact assessments to facility design and construction and through the operations phase. Assessing our surroundings. For new proj.ects, we conduct risk-based Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assess.ments (ESHIAs) to identify community concerns, environmental aspects, and social and economic conditions. For more informa.tion on our ESHIA process, see page 18. Environmental standards. Our ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS) provides a framework to guide project development and execution. EMCAPS facilitates the consideration of environmen.tal concerns and regulatory requirements early in the project design and implementa.tion process. In addition, we are developing Project Environmental Standards for each of our business lines. While the focus areas for each business line’s standards vary depending on the type of project, we expect many business lines to adopt common standards. Our Upstream Environmental Standards address land use, marine geophysical operations, social and economic issues, waste management, drill cuttings management, water manage.ment, air emissions, ﬂaring and venting, and energy efﬁ ciency. Our L&S Standards of Environmental Care address spill risk minimi.zation, energy management, and greenhouse gas and other emissions reductions. We trained selected employees in the Upstream and L&S businesses on these Standards through 2011, and plan to continue this effort. These employees have diverse roles—from environmental and regulatory advisors to managers and construction environmental engineers—ensuring broad distribution of knowledge about the Standards across the upstream and L&S companies. Data management. To meet increasing expectations from government agencies for timely, accurate, and auditable data; to stay ahead of regulatory reporting require.ments; and to enable communication to our stakeholders and communities; we began implementing an environmental data management system (EDMS) in 2008. At the corporate level, we use EDMS to collect, collate, and consolidate site-level data to help manage our environmental performance indicators globally. At each site, EDMS integrates with existing emissions monitor.ing and measurement systems to allow us to collect up-to-date, site-speciﬁ c information. We are deploying EDMS across our major operational sites, and several manufacturing and production sites already have air, water, waste, and compliance modules in place. Biodiversity and ecosystem services ExxonMobil uses a systematic approach for protecting biodiversity and ecosystem services that recognizes factors such as the rarity of individual species, their habitats, their vulnerability, and cultural value. Ecosystem services are deﬁned as the direct and indirect beneﬁts people obtain from the environ.ment. They include, for example, food, water, recreation, and climate regulation. Preserving the ability of the environment to provide these important ecosystem services is a key environ.mental risk management area for ExxonMobil. To protect critical ecosystem functions and sensitive habitats, we take steps such as modifying engineering design, construction, and operating practices, and enhancing wild.life habitats on or near our properties. We also support advocacy, research, and partnerships to protect biodiversity and ecosystem services outside our fence line. We identify biodiversity protection objec.tives and consider ecosystem services and exploration activity through our ESHIA process, the preparation of Environmental Management Plans, and our Environmental Business Planning efforts. Through participa.tion in Business for Social Responsibility’s Ecosystem Services Tools and Markets (ESTM) working group, we interface with many industry peers on important ecosystem service topics. Our involvement with ESTM helps us to better understand emerging policy and technical issues related to biodi.versity and ecosystem services. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Community relationships in Baton Rouge, Louisiana Our Baton Rouge, Louisiana, site is an integrated reﬁnery and petrochemical facility, with several smaller chemical plants and a lubricants facility in close proximity. Working with the communities surrounding the Baton Rouge site is an important part of maintaining our social license to operate. We engage the community through our ExxonMobil Community Dialogue and Partnership Panel that regularly meets to provide candid feedback to local ExxonMobil management about neighborhood concerns. We publish a quarterly newsletter to address ﬂaring and aquifer use, publicize community outreach projects, and share our annual environmental performance report. We also provide employee-led plant tours for student groups and hold site tours and operational brieﬁngs for local and state leaders, government ofﬁcials, and the media. Community members can access updated information on current operations every day of the year through a dedicated information phone line. Because of our employees’ efforts related to local wildlife conservation, the Baton Rouge complex was named the 2010 Conservation Corporation of the Year by the Governor’s Conservation Achievement Recognition Program, overseen by the Louisiana Wildlife Federation. In 2011, we screened our major sites against databases of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and World Protected Areas. We conﬁrmed that less than 20 percent of our 115 major Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical facilities are within 5 kilometers of designated environ.mentally protected areas. HYDRAULIC FRACTURING At each of these sites, we re-examined our existing environmental management practices to ensure the environmental protection measures adequately safeguard nearby protected areas. For example, land surrounding our Slagen, Norway, reﬁnery has at least 30 IUCN-listed species present. To ensure future utilization of these areas and adequate species protection, we conducted a biological characterization study of the 130 hectares of company-owned coastal forest and developed a corresponding ecological management plan. We are in the process of ﬁnalizing this management plan. The Papua New Guinea liqueﬁ ed natural gas (PNG LNG) project operates in an area of valuable and sensitive biodiversity. We are limiting our impact in the region by The economic and environmental advantages of cleaner-burning natural gas are well-recog.nized. We believe it is in everyone’s interest to respond effectively to public concerns over unconventional resource development in order to maximize the beneﬁ ts of this energy source. This requires industry both to properly manage associated risks, and to explain to the public and policymakers how we are doing so. Identifying and managing risk. All indus.trial processes have risks, and drilling for unconventional oil and gas is no different. The technical and environmental risks associ.ated with drilling an unconventional well onshore are low compared to other forms of energy production. Today’s unconventional resources are located almost exclusively onshore. As a result, the local and cumu.lative risks and impacts associated with unconventional oil and gas development may affect large, often densely populated areas. We understand stakeholders are concerned about these risks, including those related to hydraulic fracturing ﬂuids and wastewater, well casing and groundwater, vehicle trafﬁ c, air emissions, and other related effects. These are important concerns, and we know we must respond to them in every community in which we operate and reach out to commu.nities to ensure our responses are effective. ExxonMobil has extensive experience in identifying and analyzing risks in all types of oil and gas production operations, and estab.lishing preventive practices and processes to manage and mitigate them. We analyze every signiﬁcant operation the Corporation undertakes through our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS). Applying OIMS requires us to identify potential safety, environmental, and social impacts and to implement procedures and processes to mitigate risks. XTO Energy Inc. (XTO), a recently acquired subsidiary of ExxonMobil, will fully implement OIMS, and is carrying out a risk-based, focused, and deliberate execu.tion strategy. Effective risk management is one means of addressing stakeholder concerns surround.ing unconventional resource development. For example, our standard procedures and processes include designing well pads to contain accidental spills, installing multiple layers of steel pipe and cement to protect groundwater and other aquifers, and develop.ing stringent surface water management and wastewater disposal practices. Additionally, our technology allows us to reduce surface impacts by drilling multiple horizontal wells— sometimes thousands of feet through under.ground shale, all from a single well pad. Seismicity associated with unconventional resource development is a relatively new concern gaining public attention. There have been a few cases where the deep underground injection of wastewater for disposal purposes has been associated with seismicity. None of these were associ.ated with ExxonMobil’s wells. There are thousands of permitted class II injection wells around the United States with very few being investigated for association with low level seismicity. Our geophysicists and other experts are engaged in discussions with others in industry and regulatory ofﬁ cials to better understand the subsurface impact of oil and gas operations and address the underlying causes of these events. All our shale gas development and produc.tion activities are guided by proven policies, industry guidelines and practices, as well as more than 40 years of experience in hydraulic fracturing. A wide variety of publicly available information discusses the systems and pro.cedures we have employed to manage these risks, including the ExxonMobil-sponsored aboutnaturalgas.com website. Key public policy issues. ExxonMobil chairs the American Petroleum Institute working group that has developed four recommended practice documents encom.passing the life cycle of unconventional resource development. In the United States, we work with state governments and multi-state entities to address concerns, establish effective regulatory frameworks, and implement industry consensus on sound management practices. Concerns about hydraulic fracturing are not conﬁned to the United States. In 2008, ExxonMobil started evaluating potential unconventional natural gas resources in Germany and elsewhere in Europe. In response to stakeholder concerns, ExxonMobil con.ducted an information and dialogue process for maximum transparency. Two indepen.dent facilitators brought in well-recognized scientists to conduct independent research and answer stakeholder questions related to the safety and environmental sustainability of the drilling process and fracturing technology. We will continue to engage with stakehold.ers in Europe and other regions where we are seeking to develop unconventional resources. A vital component of building community trust is transparency of operations. We support the disclosure of the ingredients used in hydraulic fracturing ﬂ uids, including on a site-speciﬁ c basis. In the United States, disclosure appears on the publicly accessible FracFocus.org website, an effort between the Ground Water Protection Council and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission. Launched in April 2011, ExxonMobil and others in industry have voluntarily submitted actual data from more than 10,000 wells. In Canada, the public can access FracFocus.ca for industry disclosures in British Columbia, with Alberta and Saskatchewan planned for late 2012. We are pursuing similar disclosure approaches in Europe and other areas where we are exploring internationally. Ongoing commitment. We recognize that the scale and growth of unconventional resource development continues to prompt signiﬁcant questions among stakeholders. ExxonMobil has drilled nearly 900 uncon.ventional resource wells this year, and we are one of many operators bringing this resource to market. We will continue to take a leadership role in working collaboratively with communities, regulators, and indus.try associations to manage operational risk and address questions and concerns. ExxonMobil recognizes the importance of responsible operations in maintaining stake.holder support for this signiﬁ cant resource. implementing a Biodiversity Strategy to meet the project’s deﬁned biodiversity objectives. Part of the Biodiversity Strategy involves the implementation of biodiversity offsets. In collaboration with Conservation International, a nonproﬁt organization with expertise in environmental and conservation practices, and in consultation with local organizations and experts, we are developing recommen.dations for implementing a Biodiversity Offset Delivery Plan. Through this plan, we will seek to conserve land in particularly sensitive loca.tions to safeguard and promote stewardship of local biodiversity. The PNG LNG project is in the construction phase, and will eventually include gas production and processing facili.ties, liquefaction and storage facilities, and nearly 700 kilometers of connecting pipelines. Offsets will generally consist of conservation programs implemented by a local community and will involve various Papua New Guinea nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and the government. By the end of 2011, we had more than 2700 hectares of land being actively managed for the beneﬁt of wildlife at 18 ExxonMobil sites, compared with 140 hectares in 2009. Protecting and enhancing wildlife habitat on our properties is a strategic element of our broader corporate biodiversity manage.ment approach. ExxonMobil is proud to be a charter member of the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) since its establishment in 1988 and we partner with the WHC to certify ExxonMobil locations for conservation. We have identiﬁed several sites for WHC certi.ﬁcation in 2012, including many outside the United States. This past year, we established a WHC Site Coordinators working group to share knowledge on program sustain.ment activities, local relationships, and site certiﬁcations. The active participation and engagement of our employees is instrumental in the success of our on-site wildlife habitat conservation efforts. For example, employees at our ExxonMobil Chemical global head.quarters in Houston, Texas, a certiﬁ ed Wildlife Habitat site since 2010, learned of owls threatened by record droughts in the area. A volunteer team coordinated with the Wildlife Center of Texas to build an enclosure on the 14-hectare property and reintroduce owls into the environment. So far, 11 owls have been successfully rescued, tagged for future monitoring, and released. In Shanghai, 84 ExxonMobil volunteers have helped to re-establish local wetlands. Since 2010, they have contributed more than 1300 hours during their weekends and holi.days to help support this key ecosystem. Part of this effort involves training other local volunteers and students on the importance of preserving wetland ecology and biodiversity. We seek to engage NGOs on conservation projects in key countries and near operat.ing sites, particularly to partner with them to implement speciﬁc programs with measur.able, scientiﬁc results. In 2011, ExxonMobil contributed more than $2 million to organiza.tions dedicated to biodiversity protection and land conservation. We also support organiza.tions focused on improving the quality and quantity of species data, such as the United Nations World Conservation Monitoring Centre, so that we can enhance our environ.mental planning and protection efforts. Freshwater management The oil and gas industry requires water, including freshwater, in its operations. We use water in the extraction, processing and reﬁning of hydrocarbons, and for cooling associated with electricity generation at our facilities. As part of our project planning, we assess the impact of our activities on water availability and demand. We use a wide range of approaches to reduce water use and preserve water quality through on-site recy.cling and water reuse, purchasing treated wastewater for use as process water, employ.ing processes to decrease water needs, and appropriately treating wastewater streams prior to their discharge. In 2011, the net freshwater consumption at our operations was 2342 million barrels, representing a 9 percent increase from 2010. We actively manage our water consumption and seek opportunities to reduce, reuse, and recycle water in our operations. For example, our Torrance, California, reﬁnery purchases and uses recycled wastewater from a local municipal treatment plant for cooling tower makeup and boiler feed water, representing nearly 70 percent of total water consumption at this facility. In our heavy oil operations at Cold Lake, Canada, we use a variety of water-use-reduction measures, 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 15 and about 85 percent of water use on-site is treated, recycled water produced with heavy oil. In 2011, we used the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s (WBCSD) global water tool to identify regions where we operate that may have water scarcity concerns. Information on water stress and scarcity in the vicinity of our operations serves as an important part of risk manage.ment. Of our 115 major operating sites, we identiﬁed about 25 percent operating in regions that may have some degree of water stress or scarcity. These areas are located in 15 countries. In 2011, our upstream companies introduced a process to enhance water management. Since then, the quantity and quality of water use data have been signiﬁcantly improved and a water footprinting strategy has been instituted to better analyze our interac.tions with local water resources. In 2012, our major sites plan to review their water consumption rates to identify opportunities for responsible use. Those sites located in scarce or stressed regions plan to update their Environmental Business Plans to ensure effective water resource management. There are a variety of projects in progress to reduce water consumption. Our King Ranch Gas Plant in Texas is planning a water recy.cling system using reverse osmosis to treat water for on-site reuse. This will signiﬁcantly reduce water use and almost completely eliminate liquid efﬂuent from the plant. We believe engaging our peers on water management issues can improve overall petroleum industry performance. In 2011, we helped develop the Global Environmental Management Initiative Local Water Tool, which allows sites to identify and rank risks associated with the availability and reliability of water sources and wastewater discharge Regional Water Availability1 Sites located Sites located in areas with in areas with some degree no degree of of water stress water stress or scarcity or scarcity 25% 75% 1Results based on an assessment of our 115 major operating sites using the WBCSD’s global water tool. Other Spills (Not from Marine Vessels) Number of oil, chemical, and drilling fluid spills greater than 1 barrel  Spills to water  Spills to soil  07  253  08  211  09  242  10  210  11  484  PROTECTING WESTERN GRAY WHALES points. We piloted the tool at four of our sites and anticipate using the ﬁnal version in 2012. Pilot sites found the tool useful in identifying potential risks, which we plan to address using management tools such as Environmental Business Plans. We also supported efforts to customize a version of the WBCSD global water tool speciﬁcally for the oil and gas industry in collaboration with the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conser.vation Association (IPIECA). Spill performance The BP Deepwater Horizon incident in 2010 reafﬁrmed the importance of continually developing and improving risk manage.ment, operations integrity, spill prevention processes, and containment capabilities. Our own spill prevention programs seek to strengthen procedures, build in layers of protection, inspect and maintain equipment, train operators, and conduct tests and drills. Unfortunately, in 2011, we did not meet our expectation of continued improvement regarding spill performance. A pipeline breach in Montana resulted in an estimated 1509 barrels of oil being released into the Yellowstone River (page 28). This incident brought the total volume of hydrocarbons spilled to land or water in 2011 to about 18 thousand barrels, with nearly 75 percent recovered at the site of the spill. The number of nonmarine hydrocarbon spills greater than 1 barrel in 2011 was 73 percent higher than in 2007 and 108 percent higher than 2010. XTO is already beneﬁ ting from the implementa.tion of OIMS and incorporation of ExxonMobil’s best practices in environmental manage.ment. The total volume spilled by XTO was 58 percent lower in 2011 compared to 2010. In 2011, we continued our implementation of the downstream Global Human Factors Best Practice Guide in order to instill a zero-spill mindset across ExxonMobil. The Guide out.lines 17 high-risk elements and corresponding procedures to reduce the likelihood of a human-caused spill. This initiative is helping us effectively address reﬁnery spills caused by human factors, which are down more than 40 percent over the past four years. We are also using a specialized risk tool to identify infrastructure in need of upgrades to help us further avoid spills. We are focusing in 2012 on improvement measures at those reﬁ ning sites with the highest spill rates. Marine vessel spill performance. During 2011, vessels owned and operated by ExxonMobil’s marine afﬁ liates surpassed more than ﬁve years without any spills to water greater than 1 barrel. There were no spills from long-term chartered ships in 2011. This marine ﬂeet of more than 650 vessels in daily service logged 25,000 voyages in 2011 and safely transported more than 1.8 billion barrels of crude oil and reﬁned products globally. Technological innovation in oil spill response. The ﬁrst component of protecting the environment during offshore production is preventing spills from happening. In order to be prepared in case a spill occurs, we are working to make efﬁcient containment equipment and dispersants readily available. Working in close cooperation with Russian scientiﬁ c institutes afﬁ liated with the Russian Academy of Sciences, our scientists have researched western gray whales since 1997. This successful research and monitoring program has provided improved under.standing of the ecology of the population. During the course of research, western gray whales in the vicinity of Sakhalin Island have been monitored, photographed, and catalogued. The important summer feeding grounds for these endangered marine mammals are along the northeastern shore of Russia’s Sakhalin Island, near where we operate an offshore production platform and plan to install a second in 2012. To safeguard the whales’ feeding grounds, we follow strict criteria based both on published science and our own research ﬁ ndings. These studies provide information about the level of noise produced by shoreline or offshore operations, and the potential of that noise to propagate into feeding areas. These levels are compared with published thresh.olds, and we take appropriate actions to minimize disturbances to the whales. When we conduct work offshore, we also employ experts to observe the whales; protocols are in place to modify or suspend work if these experts determine that the whales are potentially at risk from our activities. These efforts, combined with scientiﬁ c knowledge of the individual animals and population monitoring, have demonstrated that this fragile population continues to grow. In 2000, there were around 100 whales; today there are more than 130. ExxonMobil has partnered with several For example, at our chemical plant in Notre companies to form the nonproﬁt Marine Well Dame de Gravenchon, France, we optimized Containment Company (MWCC) to develop a our processes and reduced VOC emissions by rapid-response oil spill containment system approximately 150 metric tons per year. for the Gulf of Mexico. The system involves a ExxonMobil is co-sponsoring an inter-more than $1 billion combined commitment disciplinary ﬁve-year research program, on behalf of the member companies and coordinated by the Health Effects Institute, provides pre-engineered, constructed, and focused on determining which particulate tested containment technology and equip-constituents have the most signiﬁ cant health ment deployable within 24 hours of a spill impacts. Research ﬁndings will be used to in the Gulf. A team of marine, subsea, and develop more cost-effective emission control construction engineers led by ExxonMobil strategies targeting those particles with the is designing and constructing expanded highest public health concern. Results from system components that will enhance current individual sub-studies will be released in containment capabilities. This specially 2012, with a ﬁnal report of the overall results designed subsea containment equipment will expected in 2013. We plan to monitor and be usable at depths of up to 10,000 feet and evaluate the results as they become available. is designed to capture up to 100 thousand Greenhouse gas emissions and ﬂ aring are barrels of oil per day. The captured oil will discussed in the Managing Climate Change be sent to vessels that can safely process, Risks section of this report (see page 22). store, and ofﬂ oad it. Waste management. Our ﬁrst waste manage-To enhance spill response capabilities, ment priority is to minimize its generation, ExxonMobil’s researchers have recently then to reuse or recycle it wherever possible. developed a new dispersant gel, capable of In 2011, ExxonMobil and its wholly owned treating oil with two-thirds less dispersant subsidiary SeaRiver Maritime sold the S/Rthan other formulas. We expect this product Wilmington to a U.S. ship-recycling facility to be ready for commercial sale by the end for dismantling that will maximize material of 2012. Globally, we are engaged in efforts recovery and ensure the proper handling and through the International Association of Oil disposal of materials. The watchdog organiza.and Gas Producers and IPIECA to improve tion Basel Action Network lauded our action industry capability in this area. to recycle the Wilmington. Emissions and waste In 2011, we disposed of 1.9 million metric tons of hazardous waste from our ongoing opera-We continue to seek opportunities to reduce tions. Of this amount, 1.7 million metric tons the environmental impacts from our opera-was produced water, which is classiﬁed as ations by reducing air emissions and the hazardous waste by only one local authority. generation of waste. Excluding produced water brought to the Air emissions. In 2011, our combined surface during oil and gas production, we emissions of volatile organic compounds reused or recycled about 50 percent of the (VOCs), sulfur dioxide (SO2), and nitrogen hazardous waste generated by our opera-oxides (NOx) increased by 5 percent from tions. Where appropriate, produced water 2010 but decreased 26 percent from 2007 may be re-injected using deep disposal wells levels. By year-end 2011, our U.S. reﬁ ning or discharged offshore after having ﬁ rst been facilities reduced combined NOx and SO2 treated to remove residual oil. Our Tulare, emissions by more than 35 percent from California, facility is building a system to 2000 levels. Since 2007, our global chemical ﬁlter and soften produced water for reuse as operations have reduced VOC emissions by feed water to a steam generator. Much of our 25 percent and NOx emissions by 8 percent. reported hazardous waste from remediation ARCTIC OFFSHORE DRILLING AND EXPLORATION 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 17 Air Emissions (millions of metric tons) VOCs SO2 NOx 07 0.31 08 0.25 09 0.22 10 0.22 11 0.23 07 0.21 08 0.19 09 0.16 10 0.14 11 0.13 07 0.16 08 0.15 09 0.13 10 0.12 11 0.14 During 2011, we entered into an agreement with the Russian oil company Rosneft to jointly explore for and produce oil in Russia, the United States, and other parts of the world. During the past 15 years, we have part.nered with Rosneft in the implementation of our Sakhalin-1 project, producing hundreds of millions of barrels of oil for export to world markets. Russia offers promising prospects for new oil and natural gas discoveries, recognizing that much of its endowment is relatively unexplored or located in challeng.ing environments. As we identify possible projects with Rosneft, we will apply our nearly 90 years of technical expertise in the Arctic to protect the Russian North’s fragile environ.ment and sensitive ecology. For example, ExxonMobil is maintaining a leadership role in the Arctic Response Technology— Joint Industry Program. The program was established by nine oil and gas companies with more than $20 million in initial research on key safety, health, and environment topics such as oil spill prevention and response in ice and Arctic environments. Together, ExxonMobil and Rosneft will also establish the Arctic Research and Design Center for Offshore Development, with a mandate to develop new technologies to enable oil and gas exploration and production in the Arctic. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIOECONOMIC, AND HEALTH IMPACT ASSESSMENTS (ESHIAs) At ExxonMobil, risk management shapes our business and investment decisions. This includes evaluating and managing the risks and opportunities related to social, health, environmental, economic, and cultural matters. When starting major upstream projects, we conduct an ESHIA to identify key risks that could be encountered throughout the asset life cycle and develop strategies to appropri.ately manage these risks. ESHIAs are on the critical path of most project schedules since their submission and approval are often tied to the issuance of major permits or approvals. ESHIAs are an extensive analysis and require thorough observation of natural and social environments, often over many seasons. We typically contract independent consulting ﬁrms to conduct ESHIAs on our behalf, which provides an important impartial perspective and helps foster credible and productive relationships with external stakeholders. A key aspect of conducting an ESHIA involves engaging directly with affected com.munities, relevant governmental agencies, international organizations, and local NGOs in order to solicit feedback on a project and gain information that can be used to improve the project or its execution. As part of the process, stakeholders are given the oppor.tunity to review and comment on ESHIA drafts. Detailed literature surveys, scientiﬁ c studies, technical evaluations, and socio.economic analyses are key activities that require signiﬁ cant ﬁeld time. Socioeconomic analyses include indigenous peoples considerations (if applicable), demo.graphic evaluations, way of life analyses, and cultural heritage determinations. The results of an ESHIA inform our project-based decision-making, allowing us to develop execution plans to better manage key environmental, socioeconomic, and health risks. We document, monitor, evaluate, and plan implementation through the life cycle of a project to determine the effectiveness of risk management approaches coupled with continuous improvement feedback loops. We apply an “avoid, mitigate, compensate” strategy to address potential risks identiﬁ ed through an ESHIA. Our goal is to manage risks to a level as low as practicable. This hierarchical approach ensures that we ﬁ rst consider modifying aspects of the project design or execution plan to avoid an impact. For example, in response to an ESHIA con.ducted for an Arctic development project, we timed the shipping of various pieces of equipment to the work site to avoid the traditional whale-hunting period of the local indigenous people. For another project in northern Canada, we re-routed a roadway to avoid disrupting a natural topographic feature that has signiﬁcant cultural importance to the local indigenous people. Examples of mitigation include instituting erosion control measures on pipeline easements, employ.ing prudent waste management procedures, instituting a “no hiring at the gate” policy to inhibit in-migration in the vicinity of worksites and facilities, and breaking apart large goods and services procurement contracts so that local suppliers are better able to compete. In Alaska, we adjusted our project plans in consideration of local traditions, including modifying lighting on the pads to reduce visibility, texturing and coating the pipe.lines to mitigate glare, rounding corners on gravel pads to reduce their impact on caribou movement, and building pipelines at a minimum of 2 meters above the tundra to allow caribou and hunters to pass. We also designed the export pipeline and gath.ering lines to withstand accidental bullet strikes from subsistence coastal hunting. In some situations, compensation may be the most practical solution. We offer monetary and other types of compensation to account for the project-related loss of a resource, attribute, or possession. For more information please see our Human Rights and Managing Community Impacts section (page 44). Since 2007, ExxonMobil has undertaken or participated in nearly 100 ESHIAs for projects and activities around the world, ranging from single well exploration drilling programs and new technol.ogy evaluation pilots to large development mega-projects. Conducting ESHIAs is integral to successful project execution and to developing long-term, positive relationships in the communities where we operate. RISK WARRANTS ATTENTION ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PROCESS When beginning major projects, we undertake an ESHIA, starting with identifying aspects—such as roads, pipelines, or equip-ment—that could interact with the natural and social envi.ronment, conducting a risk assessment, and developing strategies to avoid or manage those risks. Conducting an ESHIA is one key activity in this iterative process, which contin.ues throughout the life cycle of an asset. LOWER RISK activities is actually recovered soil and materials. In 2011, these remediation activities generated approximately 1.3 million metric tons of hazardous waste. Compliance record. Our worldwide environ.mental expenditures in 2011 totaled about $4.9 billion. This included about $1.6 billion in capital expenditures and about $3.3 billion in operating expenses. In 2011, 65 ﬁ nes and settlements were paid, and these accounted for 0.03 percent of total environmental expenditures, or about $1.3 million. During 2011, ExxonMobil was involved in litigation in Maryland related to an accidental underground leak at one of our company-owned, dealer-operated gasoline stations. The company has paid $50 million in cleanup costs and in 2008 paid $4 million in environmental penalties. Site remediation Reducing our overall environmental impact hinges on the ability to efﬁciently remedi.ate and reclaim sites. We use a consistent approach that leverages ExxonMobil’s remediation best practices globally. The ExxonMobil Environmental Services (EMES) functional organization remediates contaminated soil and groundwater at operat.ing facilities, inactive properties, and formerly owned sites. EMES works to enhance asset and community value and also supports new business development, while creating oppor.tunities for reuse of inactive properties. In 2011, EMES stewarded approximately 9500 active site remediation projects world.wide. We devoted more than 5.2 million work hours to remediation and reclamation activities, including the disposition of approxi.mately 405 hectares for beneﬁ cial reuse. Early and continued engagement with local communities and regulatory authori.ties is an EMES basic practice. Due to a series of historical mergers and acquisi.tions, ExxonMobil’s afﬁliate, ExxonMobil Oil Corporation, inherited the responsibility for certain operations of the Virginia Carolina Chemical Corporation (VCC), and is working cooperatively with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to remediate a number of former VCC properties pursuant to U.S. environmental laws. The EPA initially identiﬁed 24 properties requiring investiga.tion and possible remediation due to elevated levels of lead and arsenic, but we proactively assessed additional VCC properties for con.tamination, expanding the targeted site list to 38 properties. Working in cooperation with the EPA and state regulators, we have already remediated approximately 55 hectares, or about 62 percent, and have completed STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Collaborating on remediation best practices In 2011, the EPA honored ExxonMobil with an invitation to present its VCC site remediation program at the agency’s Community Involvement Training Conference. The workshop is held every other year to identify best practices in engaging communities about environ.mental issues. Our approach consisted of meeting directly with property owners and conducting town hall meetings. We also worked on projects to improve common space areas like playgrounds for neighborhood children. “The VCC projects have enhanced ExxonMobil’s relationship with the EPA. It’s apparent from the start of each project that we have a mutual understanding not only of our remedia.tion goals, but also of our objectives when engaging with the various communities.” -Lauren Gordon, EMES Project Manager “The success of the VCC projects stems from the cooperation between EPA and ExxonMobil. Our close collaboration enabled us to approach each site uniquely, identify the needs of the community, and address any concerns residents had about the remediation work.” -Stephanie Yvette Brown, EPA Region 4 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 19 investigation or developed action plans for the majority of the VCC properties. While our remediation activities do not alter the current use of the properties, the remediated sites can have a variety of end-use applications. In Germany, ExxonMobil performed a reme.diation assessment at an 18-hectare former manufacturing site along the Elbe River in the city of Wedel. Operations at the site dated back to the early 1900s. The City was interested in integrating the property into part of its strategic planning. We negotiated and agreed that the City of Wedel could purchase the property. This mutually beneﬁ cial solution allowed for the productive use of the property for the good of the local economy. Land conservation. Through the application of natural land management strategies and proactive stakeholder engagement, EMES continues to conserve inactive properties. In Fredericksburg, Virginia, we success.fully implemented a voluntary conservation easement on a portion of surplus property along the Rappahannock River. Working with the Northern Virginia Conservation Trust, a member of the Land Trust Alliance (LTA), conservation values—including enhance.ment of the water quality of the river and the Chesapeake Bay—will be preserved and protected for the long term. On Long Island, New York, ExxonMobil continues to advance the preservation of coastal habitat within the boundaries of two former fuel storage terminal sites whose operations date back to the early 1900s. In cooperation with local conservation organizations, we are making progress toward land conservation of these ecologically valuable properties. Explore enhanced web content at exxonmobil.com/citizenship Technology Technological advancements allow ExxonMobil to drive continuous improvement in mitigating the environmental and safety risks associated with energy development. ExxonMobil’s commitment to invest in technol.ogy enables us to develop innovative solutions to improve safety, minimize environmental impact, and maximize resource value. We have invested approximately $8 billion in research and development (R&D) during the past 10 years, and almost $2 billion on technologies related to safety and the environment. Our process for evaluating technology for devel.opment and commercialization is guided by the business lines’ long-term commitment to continuous improvement in operations integrity as formalized in our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) and by the opportunity technology presents to lower energy use, maximize resource value, enhance our product offering, and contribute to competitive advantage. Strategic technology development At the core of our business are several key research organizations that work collab.oratively on new technologies. ExxonMobil recently established a corporate-level Emerging Energy Sources and Technologies team (EMEST), tasked with evaluating technologies either over long time hori.zons, or in ﬁelds outside the company’s near-term business focus. Once EMEST determines that a technology is scalable from an energy supply-demand perspec.tive, ﬁts with ExxonMobil competencies, and could provide the Corporation a competitive advantage or support its license to operate, the team can elect to evaluate or progress the technology in a functional R&D program. In addition to corporate-level research, functional technology groups support each of the business lines in guiding their technol.ogy investment. For example, ExxonMobil’s upstream research afﬁliate ExxonMobil Research Qatar (EMRQ) is developing a remote gas detection system that pairs infrared camera technology with a sophisti.cated algorithm that detects hydrocarbons. When deployed, remote gas detection ( 1 ) will improve process safety and reduce hydrocarbon emissions by identifying leaks quickly and automatically. Downstream Research & Engineering con.tinually works on process enhancements to reduce ﬂaring and associated emis.sions. We also invest in new technologies to improve energy efﬁciency. For example, the Chemical business explores novel materials and catalysts to improve energy efﬁciency. By using a new compound in the synthesis of butyl rubber ( 2 ), which takes place at very cold temperatures, Chemical Technology scientists raised the tempera.ture at which the manufacturing process occurs—leading to considerable energy efﬁciency improvements. STRATEGIC TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ACROSS EXXONMOBIL Business Functional Corporate Strategic Research Deﬁning our approach: discovery, development, and deployment ExxonMobil conducts cutting-edge R&D through in-house efforts, via partner.ships with other industries, and by funding academic and other nongovernmental research projects. As a technology moves from concept to research and application, ExxonMobil applies a consistent manage.ment approach. In 2007, we started applying a white paper process to explore emerging technologies. These studies help to educate the company on emerging technologies, deﬁne our poten.tial contribution to the science, and assess the future applicability of the technologies to our businesses. The Corporation has engaged experts from a variety of disciplines within functional research labs to write white papers on topics ranging from biofuels to nanotechnology. In the course of develop.ing these papers, EMEST may determine a particular technology warrants future investment. Recently, the team’s ﬁndings on photovoltaics ( 3 ) informed the updated Outlook for Energy. The standard process for technology investment requires assessing technical fea.sibility through R&D. ExxonMobil’s research functions follow a stage-gate research ENHANCING SAFETY TRAINING EMRQ is developing virtual reality tech.nology using sophisticated computer and video-based components to train our plant, terminal, and marine operators. Using this immersive 3D training environ.ment, individuals working in Qatar’s oil and gas industry will be able to simulate actual work scenarios ranging from routine operations to emergency response, using detailed models of their facilities. The training platform can be connected to other 3D display units so that multiple ﬁeld operators can train together on the same simulation exercise. This element of realism makes training more effective, helping personnel perform jobs more safely. management system to progress technolo.gies from the early stages of innovation through the ﬁnal stages of deployment. Researchers partner with the business lines to determine the business beneﬁt of a technology, establish research and development goals and timelines, steward independent project reviews, and authorize project funding. Time horizons for these projects vary sig.niﬁcantly. For example, we began evaluating remote gas detection in 2007. Researchers at EMRQ determined its technical feasibil.ity in 2010. In 2011, EMRQ partnered with Louisiana State University Fire School to conduct ﬁeld testing. Based upon adjust.ments made after ﬁeld tests, we anticipate the technology to be ready for commercial application in 2012, with potential deploy.ment in 2013. Breakthrough technologies can take much longer to develop. More than 20 years ago, an ExxonMobil researcher hypothesized that freezing the carbon dioxide (CO2) that is sometimes produced from underground natural gas reservoirs could be a more efﬁ.cient approach to separation. ExxonMobil Upstream Research Company is currently testing the Controlled Freeze Zone™ (CFZ™, 4 ) technology at our LaBarge, Wyoming, gas facility. There, a tower freezes and separates CO2 from natural gas into a high-pressure stream, ideal for use in sequestration or in enhanced oil recovery. CFZ™ technology will require further evaluation before full commercialization and deployment might be possible. Technical and commercial feasibility While many of our technology investments lead to deployment, there are no guaranteed outcomes. Even a technology that faces barriers to deployment can provide valuable insights to business decisions. After years of research and practice, we have learned that carbon capture and storage (CCS) is technically feasible, especially when applied to enhanced oil and natural gas production. CCS involves capturing, transporting, and storing CO2 in underground geologic forma.tions such as saline or depleted oil and gas reservoirs. We have successfully captured and sold up to 7 million metric tons of CO2 per year extracted from natural gas streams in Wyoming for enhanced oil recovery since 1986. Through widespread application on ﬁxed sources, such as power plants, the technologies involved in CCS could be an integral part of achieving global goals regarding climate change over the next century. However, the high cost associated with capturing CO2 from ﬂue gas currently makes CCS uneconomical for power plants where the largest CO2 reduction potential exists. ExxonMobil’s Corporate Strategic STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Collaborating with research institutions The Global Energy Technology Strategy Program (GTSP) is a major project of the Joint Global Change Research Institute (JGCRI), a collaboration between the Paciﬁ c Northwest National Laboratory and the University of Maryland. JGCRI is home to one of the world’s leading integrated human and biogeophysical earth system modeling programs. Through the use of the JGCRI model, GTSP aims to enhance global decision-making by sharing open-source knowledge with public and private institutions. ExxonMobil is an active sponsor of GTSP, working collaboratively to assess opportuni.ties for technology in climate change mitigation. Haroon Kheshgi, a senior researcher at ExxonMobil, interacts with GTSP regularly. “At ExxonMobil, we develop an Energy Outlook that goes out 30 years. GTSP looks out over the next century. Looking out 100 years is, of course, subject to considerable uncertainty. Interacting with GTSP, we can better understand, challenge, and improve our assumptions involved in projections over both the next decades and the next century.” Jae Edmonds, chief scientist for the JCGRI and co-director of the GTSP, described the partnership’s dialogues: “ExxonMobil invited GTSP researchers down to Dallas, Texas, several times to meet with energy outlook analysts and exchange information on technol.ogy in all parts of the energy system, ranging from power generation to transportation. We’ve had some very illuminating researcher interactions with ExxonMobil.” Research team is investigating materials and systems that could bring the cost down. We believe applying our experience in CCS for enhanced oil and natural gas production could lead to competitive, market-based solutions that include natural gas-ﬁ red power plants. Even so, we do not anticipate CCS becoming broadly applicable over the next few decades. LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENTS Identifying whether a technology can result in an environmental improvement over an existing process can be chal.lenging, especially in the energy sector. ExxonMobil has established a cross-functional team to share best practices in life cycle assessments (LCAs) for our products and technologies. The objective of these in-house efforts is to develop consistent comparisons of energy alter.natives, as well as to build and extend the science of LCAs by working with leading academics and universities. In 2011, we conducted an LCA to assess the impact of algae biofuel production on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, land use, and water use. The study, com.pleted in partnership with Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Synthetic Genomics Inc., showed that with further research and development, algae biofu.els could be produced with freshwater consumption equivalent to petroleum reﬁning, and enable lower GHG emis.sions. This study has been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal. Managing Climate Change Risks HIGHLIGHTS 120 megawatts of new cogeneration capacity added globally in 2011 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW 12% improvement in energy efﬁ ciency across our worldwide chemical operations since 2002 $440 million invested to improve energy efﬁ ciency, reduce ﬂaring, and reduce GHG emissions in 2011 What we said in 2010 • Improve energy efﬁciency by at least 10 percent between 2002 and 2012 across our worldwide reﬁning and chemical operations • Continue efforts to reduce upstream hydrocarbon ﬂ aring • Explore ways to integrate new tech nologies to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from large oil and gas projects • Start up new cogeneration facilities in Singapore and the Netherlands What we did in 2011 • Improved energy efﬁ ciency and remained on track to achieve our 2012 goal for reﬁning and chemical operations • Started up a new cogeneration facility in the Netherlands • Included energy conservation criteria during the design phase of our Houston, Texas, campus What we plan to do • Continue to improve energy efﬁ ciency by at least 10 percent between 2002 and 2012 across our worldwide reﬁ ning and chemical operations • Start up a cogeneration facility in Singapore and continue to explore new cogeneration opportunities • Achieve Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold building certiﬁcation at our Houston, Texas, campus in 2014 Global climate change remains an extraordinarily complex issue. Scientiﬁc evidence points to the fact that rising GHG emissions present risks to society and ecosystems—and that these risks warrant action by governments, companies, and citizens. Reducing GHG emissions while expanding energy supply is one of the greatest challenges facing our industry and modern society. At ExxonMobil, our climate change risk management strategy includes four primary elements: mitigating GHG emissions in our operations, encouraging the responsible use of our products, developing cutting-edge technology, and engaging in dialogue to promote effective public policy. Mitigating GHG emissions in our operations Technological innovation underpins ExxonMobil’s approach to reducing GHG emissions. In particular, we focus on increas.ing energy efﬁciency in the short term; implementing emission-reducing technologies in the near and medium term; and develop.ing breakthrough technologies for the long term (page 20). We are committed to ﬂ are reduction, energy efﬁciency, cogeneration of power and steam, and production efﬁ ciency improvements to reduce GHG emissions. In 2011, we invested $440 million to improve energy efﬁciency, reduce ﬂaring, and reduce GHG emissions. Greenhouse gas emissions in our operations. In 2011, ExxonMobil's net equity GHG emissions1 were 129 million metric tons, excluding emissions from the production of electricity and steam exported from our operations to other users. Our indirect GHG emissions from purchased electricity and steam were an estimated 14 million metric tons. Relative to our 2010 performance, this represents an increase of about 4 million metric tons, or 3 percent. Flaring. During crude oil extraction, a blend of hydrocarbon gases often accompanies oil to the surface. In certain situations, we ﬂare this gas either as a safety measure or as a means of disposal when there are no economic means of capturing and using it. To avoid ﬂaring, we need business environ.ments with the right conditions, including available markets, nearby infrastructure, and appropriate regulations. Unfortunately, many of our remote upstream operations do not yet meet these criteria. In 2011, our upstream ﬂ aring averaged 405 million cubic feet per day, an increase of 16 percent from 2010 and a reduction of 53 percent from 2007. Relative to our net direct GHG emissions, ﬂ aring contributed approximately 9 percent. Our operations in Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea account for most of the ﬂared gas, contributing about 68 percent of our total upstream ﬂ aring. We continue to make infrastructure investments to improve gas management in these countries. Energy efﬁ ciency. In 2011, energy used in our operations totaled 1.55 billion gigajoules. ExxonMobil pursues a variety of projects to improve energy efﬁciency. Since 2000, we have used our Global Energy Management System (GEMS) in the Downstream and Chemical business lines to methodically and rigorously identify and act on energy savings opportunities. The GEMS equivalent in the Upstream business is the Production Operations Energy Management System (POEMS). Implementation of GEMS and POEMS is helping us meet our 10 percent energy efﬁciency improvement target and reduce upstream ﬂ aring. Through 2011, we improved energy efﬁ ciency by approximately 9 percent in reﬁ ning and more than 12 percent in chemical manufac.turing since 2002. Combined chemical and reﬁning operations have improved energy efﬁ ciency two to three times faster than the industry average. For an example of facility-level energy efﬁ ciency improvements, please see our Singapore site tour (page 48). ExxonMobil recently announced plans to build a new campus on a 155-hectare site just north of Houston, Texas. We carefully considered energy conservation during the design phase of the campus and aim to achieve LEED Gold building certiﬁcation. By optimizing daylight availability and incorporating other energy efﬁ ciency measures, we expect to reduce our energy demand in the ofﬁ ce buildings by more than 40 percent compared to traditional ofﬁ ce buildings, and 30 percent compared to the Bell Street ExxonMobil building in Houston. ExxonMobil’s Global Real Estate and Facilities group has been working on an initia.tive to reduce the environmental footprint of our ofﬁces. This includes analysis of energy, water, and waste across our facilities. We are developing toolkits to help ExxonMobil facilities understand and implement energy management programs. We are also Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Net) Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions (millions of metric tons) Upstream Downstream Chemical 08 126 09 124 10 125 11 129 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Normalized) Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions (metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production) Upstream  Downstream  Chemical  08 09 10 11  21.0 20.2 20.3 20.7  08 09 10 11  21.0 21.0 20.8 20.4  08 09 10 11  59.8 60.7 57.9 57.1  1Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in the Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (American Petroleum Institute) and the Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions (International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association). Greenhouse Gas Reductions from ExxonMobil Actions1 Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions (millions of metric tons) Energy efficiency and cogeneration  Flare reduction  08  7.5  09  9.6  10  12.3  11  16.0  1Cumulative since 2006.  Hydrocarbon Flaring from Upstream Oil and Gas Production (millions of metric tons)  08  5.2  09  4.0  10  3.2  11  3.7  encouraging our facilities to record baseline energy performance data and metrics to drive performance and measure success. During 2009–2010, a contractor conducted energy assessments at 21 of our international facili.ties. They performed visual inspections and reviewed operating procedures and utility bills for electricity, natural gas, and water. Sites received a list of potential improvement opportunities and determined which projects to pursue. Cogeneration. ExxonMobil is developing innovative ways to generate power more efﬁciently and with less environmental impact compared to purchasing electricity from a local utility. Cogeneration captures heat generated from the production of electricity to use in production, reﬁning, and chemical processing operations. With interests in more than 5000 megawatts of cogeneration capac.ity globally, in 2011 we added 120 megawatts of additional capacity from our new cogen.eration facility in the Netherlands. Another new cogeneration facility in Singapore will come online in 2012, adding approximately 220 megawatts. Developing cutting-edge technology Our ability to develop breakthrough technol.ogy is paramount to our long-term business success. ExxonMobil currently has research underway to more efﬁciently and effectively increase energy supplies, reduce emissions, and improve operational efﬁciency. For more information about our partnerships and in-house technology capabilities, please also see our technology case study (page 20). Supporting long-term scientiﬁ c research. ExxonMobil supports long-term collaborative scientiﬁc research related to GHG emis.sions. Since 2002, we have contributed more than half of our $100 million commitment to Stanford’s Global Climate and Energy Project, which is focused on identifying breakthrough energy technologies. Many of the technologies are years away from widespread adoption, but still hold promise. In 2009, ExxonMobil announced our algae biofuels research and development program. Since then, we have made progress toward identifying and developing strains of algae with desired characteristics. Algae-based biofuels could enhance the world’s transpor.tation fuel supply while consuming carbon dioxide (CO2). We understand developing such alternative technologies poses many challenges, and overcoming them will require a considerable investment of time, money, and scientiﬁc expertise. We are progressing a number of technolo.gies to enable the commercial development of in situ bitumen in our heavy oil ﬁ elds in Canada, where this resource lies too deep for surface mining. Current efforts are focused on the use of solvents to access undeveloped resources and reduce GHGs, among other environmental and economic beneﬁ ts. ExxonMobil’s proprietary Controlled Freeze ZoneTM (CFZTM) technology freezes and separates CO2 from natural gas into a high-pressure stream, ideal for use in seques.tration or in enhanced oil recovery. CFZTM technology could make carbon capture and storage more affordable and efﬁ cient in reducing GHG emissions. This technology continues to be developed for commercial demonstration and subsequent application. Encouraging responsible product use According to the International Energy Agency, approximately 90 percent of the GHG emis.sions generated by petroleum products are released when consumers use these products, and the remaining 10 percent are generated by the operations to produce them. Electricity generation is the largest and fastest-growing source of global energy demand. Moreover, much of the energy created to produce elec.tricity is lost to inefﬁciency. For example, a new electricity-generating turbine powered by coal or nuclear material is, at most, about 40 percent efﬁ cient. That means that for every 100 units of primary energy input, only 40 units or less are converted to usable electrical energy. New natural gas plants have a 60-percent efﬁ ciency rate. Improving fuel use efﬁ ciency represents one of the biggest oppor.tunities for curbing growth in energy demand and CO2 emissions in the coming decades. Improving product efﬁ ciency. ExxonMobil works directly with industrial customers to design products aimed at improving energy efﬁciency. Our advanced lubricating oils and greases can help increase fuel economy, contribute to longer lubricant life, and extend equipment life. To help achieve global vehicle ﬂeet transportation efﬁ ciency improvements, ExxonMobil is contributing to near- and long.term advances in vehicle, fuel, and lubricant technology. Some of our recent advances in product energy efﬁ ciency include: • Mobil SHC Pegasus synthetic natural gas engine oil enhances performance in natural gas engines used for cogeneration and is one of the ﬁrst gas engine oils to offer fuel economy beneﬁ ts; and, • Mobil SHC 600, which we recently refor.mulated, is up to 3.6 percent more energy efﬁcient compared to conventional mineral oils in gear applications. Public policy debate Managing the risks associated with climate change requires the participation of govern.ment, consumers, and the private sector to develop and sustain effective technologies and policies that reduce the global carbon footprint. ExxonMobil supports adopting strategies for reducing emissions that are stable, predict.able, long-term, simple, and transparent—and that encourage the greatest reduction in emissions at the least possible cost to society. When considering policy options, ExxonMobil advocates an approach that: • Ensures a uniform and predictable cost of carbon; • Lets market prices drive solutions; • Maximizes transparency to stakeholders; • Reduces administrative complexity; • Promotes global participation; and, • Is easily adjusted to future developments in climate science and policy impacts. If governments consider the adoption of regu.latory frameworks, we believe a well-designed, revenue-neutral carbon tax mechanism pro.vides a cost-effective policy approach. When combined with further advances in energy efﬁciency and new technologies spurred by market innovation, a carbon tax could play a signiﬁcant role in reducing GHG emissions. Mitigating global CO2 emissions will require participation from developed countries and the major developing economies in any policy response. We will continue to actively and constructively participate in global policy discussions. Global engagement on climate change. In 2011, we discussed policy issues with govern.ments and legislators around the world, including Australia, Canada, European Union countries, Japan, Singapore, and the United States. ExxonMobil was represented at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change meeting in Durban, South Africa, as an observer, and our staff contin.ues to participate in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. METHANE CAPTURE FROM MUNICIPAL LANDFILLS We test a range of potential cost scenarios for energy-related GHG emissions in our Outlook for Energy (see page 4). These forecasts use a cost on CO2 emissions to represent future climate policy options. ExxonMobil anticipates Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) CO2 costs reaching about $80 per ton by 2040. At that time, we project China will impose costs of $30 per ton, with many Non-OECD nations approaching $20 per ton. We engage regularly with governmental advisory panels and related scientiﬁ c bodies around climate change issues. For example, in 2011, we contributed to the United States National Petroleum Council report on energy resources and to the IHS CERA publication on Sound Energy Policy for Europe, and we sub.mitted testimony to parliamentary committees in the United Kingdom and Australia. During 2011, ExxonMobil representatives continued to speak on climate-related issues at events such as Net Impact, the International Petrochemical Conference, the World Petroleum Congress, and the World Shale Gas Conference. Funding of advocacy groups and research. ExxonMobil supports many public policy and academic organizations that research and 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 25 promote discussion on issues affecting our business, including climate change. We elect to fund organizations whose research contrib.utes constructively to the dialogue on effective policy and technology. We have ceased funding groups we believe were addressing the public policy discussion by questioning the science of climate change as opposed to exploring solu.tions to this complicated challenge. We publish our support of 501(c)(3) organi.zations on our website. In 2011, our climate-related advocacy and research funding beneﬁciaries included the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University, the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Research Economics and Sciences, Battelle Paciﬁc Northwest Laboratory, the Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia University, the Brookings Institution, the American Enterprise Institute, the Council on Foreign Relations, Chatham House, Resources for the Future, and the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Explore enhanced web content at exxonmobil.com/citizenship In the ﬁrst ExxonMobil project of its kind, we are tapping an East Baton Rouge Parish municipal landﬁll as an energy source for our Louisiana polyoleﬁns plant. The manufacture of polyethylene and polypropylene at the Baton Rouge facility requires steam histori.cally generated by three natural gas boilers. The landﬁll’s 6 million tons of decomposing waste releases a gas composed of about 50 percent methane and 50 percent CO2. After two years of research and development and $1.8 million in facility upgrades, the methane capture project eliminates the ﬂaring of landﬁll gas. We now treat and transport that gas nearly 6.5 kilometers to our plant to help fuel the boilers. Using this previously ﬂ ared landﬁll gas as an energy source is equivalent to removing 59,000 cars from the road. This project was cost-effective and envi.ronmentally beneﬁcial for the plant and also generated a new revenue source for the city of Baton Rouge and East Baton Rouge Parish. The site was recognized with awards from both the American Chemical Council and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality for this effort. ExxonMobil expects to purchase more landﬁll gas as system capacity is added. 