Progressing environmental initiativesOur approachOur diverse portfolio includes projects in remote and sensitive environments, such as deep water and areas of high biodiversity. Our environmental management approach is guided by an understanding of the potential environmental and socioeconomic impacts of our operations and a commitment to develop, maintain and operate projects responsibly, using appropriate standards that enable us to Protect Tomorrow. Today.Our focus areasManaging environmental performance and compliance   Reducing impacts to land and habitats   Conserving water resources   Improving air quality   Minimizing operational waste   Four ExxonMobil employees walking away from the camera at a manufacturing location. Managing environmental performance and complianceWe strive to be a leader in environmental management. We evaluate risks at each stage of a project to mitigate environmental and socioeconomic impacts. Our Corporate Ethics Policy is to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations and we apply standards designed to minimize risks to the environment and society where applicable laws and regulations do not exist.Protect Tomorrow. Today. is our guiding principle, focusing our efforts on the need to protect the environment where we operate and support the social and economic needs of the community today and for future generations. This principle embodies the environmental expectations and globally accepted industry practices that guide our day-to-day operations.Web link.Our approach to managing environmental performancePerformance and initiatives OIMS conforms to environmental standards, including International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 and American Chemistry Council Responsible Care® requirements. ExxonMobil Fuels & Lubricants Company (now part of ExxonMobil Product Solutions Company) is ISO 14001-certified at its global network of more than 20 lubricant plants. The ISO certification confirms OIMS effectiveness in managing potential environmental impacts and compliance obligations.Successful project execution requires deep insights into the environmental and socioeconomic characteristics of the areas where we operate. We typically perform an Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment for major capital projects. We use our Environmental Aspects Guide to identify and evaluate environmental and socioeconomic risks and impacts throughout the life of each asset or project. Then we develop management plans to avoid, reduce or address them. We integrate stakeholder feedback as part of our assessments, including those of local communities and stakeholders.Web link.International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001Web link.American Chemistry Council Responsible Care®PDF link.Environmental Aspects GuideTen ExxonMobil employees standing next to each other outside of an operation in Guyana.Leading sustainability in Guyana Everywhere we operate, our fundamental goal is to reduce environmental incidents to zero through continuous improvement of our operation standards and practices. We apply international standards and practices which often go beyond local compliance requirements. The Liza Unity floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) unit, built for our affiliate’s operations in the Stabroek Block in Guyana, is the first FPSO in the world to be awarded the SUSTAIN-1 notation by the Classification Society American Bureau of Shipping (ABS).To be awarded the SUSTAIN-1 notation, a vessel must align with key elements of the ESG requirements outlined in the SDGs and adhere to the requirements of the ABS Guide for Sustainability Notations. This guide covers sustainability aspects of the asset design, outfitting and layout, including pollution, energy use, recycling, coastal and marine ecosystems and human-centered design. We are pleased with the progress we have made in Guyana, and this notation represents yet another important step in our efforts to provide safe and responsible energy to society.Web link.SUSTAIN-1 notationWeb link.American Bureau of ShippingWeb link.ABS Guide for Sustainability NotationsBird's eye view of a tropical forest with a large river system. Reducing impacts to land and habitatsThe way we manage land and habitats, and their effect on biodiversity, is critical to the communities in which we operate. ExxonMobil works to mitigate potential impacts to ecosystems and the value those ecosystems provide. In new projects and ongoing operations, we build land and habitat management plans featuring protective measures specific to the location and scale of operations. ExxonMobil employs a comprehensive process to understand how our activities interact with the environmental settings. We operate in locations with a broad range of environmental and socioeconomic conditions and use a robust environmental management system to identify, assess, mitigate and monitor impacts on the environment, including potential effects on biodiversity and the value particular ecosystems provide. For major projects, we use an Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment process to identify and evaluate environmental, social and health risks. We also use an Environmental Business Planning process to identify, assess and establish solutions to environmental issues (e.g., potential mitigation measures) throughout the life of the asset. More information on Land and Habitat programs, including Project Environmental Standards, how we operate near protected areas, and how we think about land management can be found on our website.Web link.Our approach to reducing impacts to land and habitatsAn ExxonMobil employee standing on top of a mountain, talking on a two way radio.Managing biodiversity in Papua New Guinea Papua New Guinea (PNG) is home to vast natural gas resources and more than 200,000 plant and animal species. The PNG LNG Project, of which ExxonMobil PNG Limited is the operator, has operations that encompass many areas of high biodiversity significance and conservation value.To assess and manage potential long-term impacts on biodiversity, ExxonMobil PNG Limited has developed a biodiversity strategy that includes an offset program, an implementation and monitoring program and programmed monitoring activities (PMAs). Some of the notable activities in 2021 include: .	For the first time, a field team of Papua New Guinean fauna experts completed the biennial biodiversity survey in the project’s Upstream area[5]. Expatriate scientists led the previous surveys with support from PNG students and citizens. In 2021, ExxonMobil PNG Limited decided that PMAs would be led by and include only national scientists, with remote support from expatriates. The PNG team leads for the 2021 survey had participated in the surveys since 2015, gaining knowledge and helping build the PNG scientific community. .	An assessment to verify 2020 annual forest cover changes against 2019 data in the Upstream area after construction activities concluded that the identified broad-scale forest loss or degradation was not attributable[6] to ExxonMobil PNG Limited’s activities. Many of the detected disturbances came from a local tradition of landowners setting up shelters or gardens closer to project facilities or the pipeline right-of-way to symbolize their ownership. .	ExxonMobil PNG Limited’s awareness programs, community messaging and engagements with local communities help them gain an understanding of biodiversity values and importance of conservation. The awareness and training have been provided to communities, community leaders and village liaison officers. The.annual Environmental and Social Report for 2021 discusses the performance of the PNG LNG biodiversity management program in detail. ExxonMobil’s work in Papua New Guinea provides lower-emission energy to Asian markets, supports economic growth and community development within the country, and operates in a way that respects and sustains the biodiversity of the region.PDF link.Environmental and Social Report for 2021Close up view of a large blue water drain with an ExxonMobil employee communicating on the phone.Conserving water resourcesWe value water as an essential resource for human development and for the support of the world’s ecosystem. That is why ExxonMobil works to manage water resources used in our operations, in a manner that helps protect human health and the environment. We strive to be a leader in safeguarding water resources, and we try to understand water stress at the local level, as well as the potential impact of our operations. We also endeavor to integrate this understanding into our project design and operational practices.Our team works to minimize the potential impact of our operations, especially in areas of water stress, as defined by measuring the ratio of total water withdrawals to available renewable water supplies. We aim to integrate this understanding into operational practices and project design, which includes adding technology applications focused on water management.When sourcing water for our operations,.ExxonMobil identifies and manages risks related to supply and quality. We regularly review our consumption.and look for ways to use water more efficiently. ExxonMobil is piloting a tool to further enhance our understanding of risks associated with water, including wastewater discharge, water quality and supply and proximity to environmentally sensitive areas.More information on water programs, including site-specific strategies and strategic collaborations can be found on our website.Web link.Our approach to conserving water resourcesOil extraction machine situated in a field in the Permian. Saving water in the Permian The Permian Basin remains an important strategic area of U.S. oil and gas production, representing more than 40% of ExxonMobil’s U.S. net production. It is an area of water stress. As we work to maximize the value of our competitive position in the Permian, we are working to safeguard the Permian’s water sources, including availability and quality. In 2021, we implemented a comprehensive water management roadmap for the next 10 years of Permian development to manage potential future risks and uncertainties related to water sourcing, production, transport, reuse and disposal. We considered and cataloged a range of water supply, demand and disposal scenarios to understand the potential implications and opportunities for our Permian operations. While we operate in various locations within the Permian, this work has helped us identify site-specific management strategies that best meet the needs and limitations of each area. To minimize the potential impacts of water withdrawal, consumption, and discharges, we are implementing water recycling and sharing initiatives, increasing advocacy and industry engagement on water-related issues, and piloting and commercializing technologies to accelerate progress. These efforts are intended to increase the availability and quality of water within the Permian region, help us manage our water-related risks and position us for long-term success. Focusing on effective water management, we currently utilize only recycled or brackish water sources for our Permian hydraulic fracturing operations. In 2021, we recycled nearly 100 million barrels of water, which enabled us to offset almost half of our water needs for fracking operations.A river in the daylight, surrounded by grassland with a mountain range in the background.Supporting the NFWF Pecos Watershed Initiative[7] ExxonMobil is a proud member of the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation’s Pecos Watershed Conservation Initiative (PWCI). The PWCI is an innovative public-private collaboration to support both water and land habitats. Participants have invested more than $8 million to support 43 projects across the Permian Basin from southeastern New Mexico to West Texas. The PWCI works on conservation projects to bolster the health of habitats within the Pecos Watershed, including: .Improved management of native grasslands..Protection of endangered native fish and aquatic species unique to theChihuahuan Desert..Repopulation of areas with species that have previously been lost.The PWCI also supports programs that improve water quality and availability for both wildlife and agricultural purposes. We sponsor this work to support the health and sustainability of ecosystems within the Pecos Watershed.Photo courtesy of the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation.Managing spills ExxonMobil is committed to the prevention and elimination of spills from our operations. We seek to implement industry best practices to continually reduce the number of spills. We design and operate facilities with the objective of preventing unplanned releases from entering the environment and causing adverse effects.Our Spill Prevention Program establishes corporate-wide procedures for inspecting and maintaining equipment, training operators and conducting practice drills. If a spill does occur, we conduct a rapid, comprehensive response to minimize impact on communities and the environment. Our spill response research program is an industry-leading in-house program with a focus on cold-water and remote locations that also applies to local or surface spills.At ExxonMobil refineries, we recently enhanced the existing human factors approach to reinforce the zero-spill mindset among employees. Specialists developed a best practice guide that outlines 17 high-risk elements and corresponding procedures designed to reduce the likelihood of a spill caused by human error. This guide is credited with reducing such spills by more than 36% from 2016 to 2021.ExxonMobil uses comprehensive integrity-management programs to oversee the transportation of millions of barrels of petroleum and chemical products over thousands of miles of pipeline around the world. For example, our pipeline affiliate in the U.S. regularly tests its pipelines to detect corrosion and other integrity concerns and uses skilled personnel in ground and air patrols, state-of-the-art systems, alarms and other techniques to continuously control and monitor pipeline routes. In addition to prevention, we focus on maintaining a state of readiness to quickly and effectively respond to incidents resulting from our operations. To ensure that a response to an incident will be coordinated and effective, each site conducts emergency drills in accordance with regulatory requirements or management guidelines, ranging from “desktop” exercises to full-scale field drills. Annually, we conduct comprehensive multi-day drills at sites around the world, involving emergency response teams and hundreds of employees, contractors and specialists. Participants run through realistic scenarios and interact with local authorities and agencies. An ExxonMobil employee smiling at the camera, at an operating location. View looking up at a blue sky and the tops of trees.Improving air qualityExxonMobil recognizes the importance of clean air to our communities and implements emission-reduction initiatives, including those that reduce nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds at our operated assets. From 2016 to 2021, total reportable emissions of volatile organic compounds, sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides decreased by approximately 24% at operated assets.As part of our approach to improving air quality, we evaluate the potential impact of our emissions to the communities where we operate. Based on these insights, we advance appropriate capital projects and initiatives while working with regulatory agencies to assess and address potential air quality issues.ExxonMobil’s approach to air quality management includes: .	Understanding the composition and extent of our emissions. .	Meeting or exceeding environmental regulations. .	Reducing air emissions to minimize potential impacts on local communities. .	Monitoring the science and health standards related to air quality. Our corporate-wide initiatives to reduce GHG emissions intensity also have the potential to further improve air quality by lowering non-GHG emissions.Web link.Our approach to improving air qualityAn ExxonMobil employee monitoring a waste machine. Minimizing operational wasteEveryone at ExxonMobil plays a role in reducing operational waste. Our “waste mitigation hierarchy” prioritizes waste avoidance when feasible and when waste is unavoidable, we work to reduce, recover or reuse it whenever possible. We aim to dispose of waste only if other options have been exhausted and we have robust processes to select waste sites that meet our high standards and expectations. Our global network of lubricants blending and packaging plants have a Zero Waste to Landfill Silver validation[8] from Underwriters Laboratories (UL). We were the first petroleum products company to receive this status by diverting over 90% of waste produced in our global plant network from local landfills.Our objective is to continuously look for ways to minimize waste through practices like process changes; raw material changes; material handling, storage, transportation; as well as treatment and/or disposal of any remaining waste in compliance with applicable regulations. To do that, we utilize a waste mitigation hierarchy that starts with waste avoidance.Web link.Underwriters LaboratoriesWaste mitigation hierarchyExxonMobil's waste mitigation hierarchy prioritizes avoiding waste, followed by reducing, recovering, and resuing waste, recycling waste, treating waste, and disposing of waste. An oil rig sitting in a bay next to a city.Decommissioning and rehabilitation Decommissioning is the process of dismantling, removing and/or reusing facilities. ExxonMobil’s approach to decommissioning assets varies by location, type of asset and environmental characteristics of the site. We incorporate applicable regulatory requirements and globally accepted practices and take into account views expressed by relevant stakeholders, including fishing communities, environmental organizations, recycling experts and academia. Decommissioning an offshore asset presents complex challenges. In addition to the inherent risks of removal, our plans must consider each asset’s specific marine ecosystems and facility characteristics, including complexity, size and weight. Planning and preparation for decommissioning assets can start up to 10 years before execution, and ExxonMobil has a dedicated offshore decommissioning Center of Expertise for this purpose. Instead of decommissioning an asset, the company may choose to rehabilitate it. Rehabilitation is the process of safely repurposing properties that no longer support our operations. We consider the interests of various stakeholders when selecting site-specific approaches to repurpose properties. Our goal is to prevent legacy impacts on the environment while creating opportunities for beneficial reuse. ExxonMobil Environmental and Property Solutions (E&PS) is our global organization that supports the remediation and stewardship of surplus onshore sites.More information on waste programs, including project waste management standards and waste site audits, can be found on our website.Web link.Our approach to minimizing operational wasteBird's eye view of a lush mountain top with a road on top of the ridge.