Chairman’s letter For 135 years, ExxonMobil has been built on strong business fundamentals, including operational excellence, technology leadership, financial discipline and a world-class workforce. These strengths have enabled us to safely and reliably deliver energy to our customers and value to our shareholders, even in the low-price environment that our industry has experienced recently. We are committed to doing what is in the best interests of our company and society. This requires us to remain focused on safety, environmental performance, community engagement and corporate governance. I am pleased to share ExxonMobil’s 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report, which details our performance and commitments in several key areas. As you will read, we continue to apply a rigorous, results-oriented approach to corporate citizenship in our business. Our efforts to protect the safety and health of our employees, contractors and communities are at the heart of what we do every day. We strive to ensure Nobody Gets Hurt. We are proud to be an industry leader in safety culture and performance. In 2016, we achieved our best-ever workforce lost-time incident rate of 0.029 incidents per 200,000 work hours, an improvement of more than 80 percent compared to our performance in 2000. As we provide the energy to meet growing needs around the world, we are also working to manage the risks of climate change. Climate change risks warrant action by businesses, governments and consumers, and we support the Paris Agreement as an effective framework for addressing this global challenge. For our part, ExxonMobil continues to take action to mitigate our emissions and help consumers lessen their greenhouse gas impact. Since 2000, our investments to develop lower-emission energy solutions totaled about $8 billion. We are deploying technologies such as cogeneration and carbon capture and storage while researching next-generation energy sources such as algae biofuels. Continued research in technological breakthroughs will be critical to managing future environmental and climate change risks. As a science and technology company with more than 2,200 Ph.D. scientists, we will continue pursuing technologies that benefit both our company and society. Through our research organization, I have seen the transformative power of innovation — I believe it is vital to achieving progress. We also value our long-standing relationships with communities and host governments worldwide. We work to enhance the social benefits from our operations, placing an emphasis on hiring qualified local workers and supporting a variety of strategic community investments. In 2016, we contributed $242 million to communities around the world. I am proud of ExxonMobil’s corporate citizenship performance, and I look forward to building upon our progress to secure an even stronger future for our company and the society we serve. We welcome feedback from all of our stakeholders at exxonmobil.com/citizenship. Darren Woods Chairman and CEO About ExxonMobil ExxonMobil’s integrated businesses As the world’s largest publicly held oil and natural gas company, ExxonMobil uses technology and innovation to safely and responsibly deliver the energy and products the world needs. Every day, our employees work diligently to address the Upstream challenges of meeting growing global energy demand. In 2016, ExxonMobil supplied about 1.5 percent of the world’s energy demand, equivalent to about 10 percent of U.S. energy demand. The reliable and affordable energy we supply is vital to fueling economic activity and helping improve the living standards of people around the world. As we make significant investments around the world to help meet the world’s growing energy needs, we also invest in the communities in which we work. In 2016, we contributed $242 million to communities around the world. ExxonMobil has a diverse portfolio of high-quality assets, projects and resources across our Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses. Our technical expertise, global reach and integrated business model provide ExxonMobil with a competitive advantage. Our flexibility and focus on fundamentals enable us to deliver value irrespective of the industry environment. In 2016, we continued to demonstrate strong financial and operating performance across our business despite very challenging industry conditions: • Achieved earnings of $7.8 billion and return on average capital employed of 3.9 percent. • Spent $19.3 billion on capital and exploration expenditures. • Completed five major Upstream projects with a working interest production capacity of almost 250,000 oil-equivalent barrels per day. • Made significant oil discoveries offshore Nigeria and Guyana, and a gas discovery onshore Papua New Guinea. • Progressed construction of a new hydrocracker project at our refinery in Rotterdam, Netherlands. • Advanced construction of a world-scale specialty polymers facility in Singapore that will produce halobutyl rubber and performance resins. For more in-depth analysis of our financial performance and investment decisions, see our 2016 Summary Annual Report and 2016 Financial and Operating Review. We have an active exploration or production presence in 39 countries. We use our unique geoscience capabilities, technology and understanding of global hydrocarbon resources to identify and prioritize all quality opportunities. Exploration Production Gas & Power Upstream Development Marketing Research Downstream Our balanced Downstream portfolio includes refining facilities in 14 countries. We are one of the largest integrated refiners and manufacturers of fuels and lube basestocks and a leading marketer of petroleum products and finished lubricants. Refining & Supply Fuels Lubricants  Research & Marketing & Specialties Engineering Chemical We manufacture high-quality chemical products in 16 countries. Our unique portfolio of commodity and specialty businesses delivers strong returns across the business cycle. Intermediates Plastics Specialty Synthetics Basic Chemicals & Resins Elastomer & Butyl 1Gas conversion to oil-equivalent barrels using 6 million cubic feet to equal 1,000 barrels. 2Petroleum product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty. 4.1 million oil-equivalent barrels of net oil and gas production per day1 5.5 million barrels of petroleum product sales per day2 24.9 million metric tons of prime product sales3 3Prime product sales are total product sales excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales include ExxonMobil’s share of equity company volumes and finished-product transfers to the Downstream. 2016 Summary 2016 Financial and Annual Report Operating Review The Outlook for Energy The Outlook for Energy is ExxonMobil’s global view of energy demand and supply through 2040. We use the data and findings in this annual publication to help guide our long-term investments. It also highlights the dual challenge of providing the world with access to affordable and reliable energy supplies while reducing emissions to address the risks of climate change. We share The Outlook with the public to promote a better understanding of the issues shaping the world’s energy needs. Why is this important? Because energy is fundamental to modern life. It is critical to human progress and to improving living standards for 7.5 billion people across the globe, including those without electricity, clean running water and clean-burning cooking fuels. The Outlook for Energy: A View to 2040 The world’s energy to 2040: Seven things to know Modern energy is one of mankind’s most complex endeavors, and its path is shaped by countless forces. We see seven key themes that will play a major role in defining our global energy landscape through 2040. Sustainability Sustainability is critical to our business. At ExxonMobil, we work to expand the supplies of reliable and affordable energy needed for economic progress. In doing so, we take a balanced approach that considers the impact of our operations on local economies, communities and the environment. We design our approach to sustainability around six key areas: • Safety, health and the workplace • Managing climate change risks • Environmental performance • Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments • Local development and supply chain management • Corporate governance ExxonMobil is committed to aligning our long-term business objectives with these six areas. In September 2015, the United Nations published the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), providing a framework for governments, civil society and business to work together in progressing sustainability. The SDGs cover a range of sustainable development issues — through 17 goals and specific targets — that will inform countries’ planning through 2030. ExxonMobil, as a major provider of reliable and affordable energy and a partner in community health, education and economic development, helps achieve progress in many of the areas set forth in the SDGs. Stakeholder engagement We recognize the significant responsibilities we have to our shareholders, neighbors, customers and communities as we find ways to bring affordable energy to the global market. For a company of our size and scope, building and maintaining relationships with a diverse group of stakeholders is critical. Regular stakeholder engagement helps us understand a variety of perspectives and improve our company’s performance. Because our business directly affects many people around the world, we seek to understand their viewpoints. We interact with our diverse stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms, including community meetings, web and social media content, corporate publications, and one-on-one and group discussions. Examples of stakeholder engagement are included throughout this report. The following list provides examples of common areas of interest. Communities Community development; economic development; grievance management; human rights; operational impacts; environmental performance Customers Product safety and sustainability; supply chain management; greenhouse gas emissions Employees Benefits; diversity; development opportunities; safety, health and wellness Governments Taxes and other revenue sources; climate change; local supplier development; job creation; human rights; impact assessments; ethics; health; education; energy supply and security Nongovernmental organizations Biodiversity; water management; climate change; human rights; transparency; social issues Shareholders Governance practices; board composition; policy engagement; risk management; climate change Suppliers Expectations for suppliers; local business opportunities; supplier diversity; capacity building; environmental performance External Citizenship Advisory Panel ExxonMobil’s External Citizenship Advisory Panel (ECAP) provides an annual independent review of the company’s corporate citizenship activities, including this report. The ECAP consists of academics, nongovernmental organization (NGO) representatives and former government employees who have expertise in social, governance and environmental topics. In addition to providing input on ExxonMobil’s annual Corporate Citizenship Report, the ECAP discusses key topics with company executives at least once a year. We thank Sarah Labowitz for sharing her perspectives with us as a member of the panel from 2014 to 2016. Mark Cohen Professor of Management and Law Vanderbilt University Owen Graduate School of Management Frank Loy Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs U.S. Department of State Jane Nelson Director of Corporate Responsibility Initiative Harvard University Kennedy School of Government Salil Tripathi Senior Adviser, Global Issues Institute for Human Rights and Business ECAP members visited XTO Energy operations near Fort Worth, Texas, as part of the panel’s December 2016 meeting with executives. External Citizenship Advisory Panel statement ECAP statement on 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report To the readers of this report, As in prior years, we were asked to share our independent opinion on ExxonMobil’s 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report. We reviewed and provided feedback on a draft of the report. In addition, we had the opportunity to engage across all levels of the company, including senior business executives, through in-person meetings, a site visit to XTO Energy Inc., telephone and email to discuss policy and strategy issues. This letter is not an official endorsement of the report, the corporation or its policies and strategies, but rather our individual and collective views on the quality and progress made in ExxonMobil’s citizenship reporting and transparency. In recognition of the time spent, ExxonMobil provided a donation on behalf of the panelists to nonprofit organizations of our choice and reimbursed relevant travel expenses. We would also like to recognize the valuable contribution of our colleague, Sarah Labowitz, who resigned from the ECAP in late 2016, and wish her well. 2016 Commentary Taking strategic action and engaging with critics on climate change As one of society’s greatest challenges, climate change requires urgent action on the part of governments, business and civil society. The 2015 Paris Agreement, the world’s first comprehensive climate agreement, adopted in the presence of leaders of 195 countries, became effective in 2016. ExxonMobil states that it shares the Paris Agreement’s view of the seriousness of climate change, and we commend the company for urging the new U.S. administration to remain a party to the Agreement. However, the company is engaged in a legal and public dispute with visible social actors centering on what the company knew about the implications of climate change, and when and what it decided to do about it. Although the company has every right to defend itself in the litigation, these criticisms highlight the need for more proactive and constructive dialogue with critics. The panel suggests that ExxonMobil’s credibility on this issue would be strengthened if it took additional measures to promote public policies that reduce climate change-inducing greenhouse gas emissions, such as taking a leadership role to bring about a revenue-neutral carbon tax. Further, the company may want to more explicitly describe how it is aligning its long-term corporate strategy and research priorities with climate change risks and opportunities. Since this letter was originally drafted based on 2016 company performance, we take note of significant movements in that regard, such as the recent letter to the President urging continued U.S. participation in the Paris Agreement, the company’s participation as a founding member of the Climate Leadership Council, and the appointment to the board of Susan Avery, a climate scientist. Providing more data context and comparative analysis We appreciate ExxonMobil’s robust reporting, including the synthesis of its quantitative performance through a summary data table. To enhance its reporting, ExxonMobil could explain why the particular metrics reported were chosen and how they align with methodological sources such as the Global Reporting Initiative, IPIECA, CDP, reporting under the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, etc. It is also important to show both aggregate and normalized metrics similar to the approach taken for emissions or injury rates. Lastly, additional context could be provided to demonstrate the strength of performance over time and, where appropriate, comparative performance with industry standards or competitors. Leading voluntary initiatives The current regulatory landscape for a range of environmental, social, human rights and governance issues is complex and uncertain. In times such as this, it is particularly important that leading companies take proactive and constructive voluntary actions. With this in mind, the company may want to play a greater role in supporting collective action and advocacy on key issues and report on what it is doing. For example, we commend ExxonMobil’s decade-long leadership in revenue transparency and encourage the company to continue to take a strong position on this topic, including ongoing support for initiatives such as the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, despite the potential repeal of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Section 1504. We applaud ExxonMobil’s recent advocacy efforts on amendments to the Toxic Substances Control Act. In other areas where regulations may be rolled back, it will be important for the company to discuss its position and the extent to which it supports regulatory or voluntary initiatives. Lastly, ExxonMobil has developed an impressive suite of national content programs, encompassing skills development, local businesses and strategic community investment. We encourage the company to continue to strengthen these strategies and communicate how it is aligning itself with national development goals in countries of operation and with the Sustainable Development Goals. Keeping pace with the maturing human rights landscape With the maturing of human rights initiatives, there is a need for the company to keep pace in responding to stakeholder expectations and building industry-wide or multi-stakeholder coalitions to address human rights issues. As a participant in the Voluntary Principles (VPs) on Security and Human Rights, we encourage ExxonMobil to share good practices and lessons learned and participate actively in efforts to develop common standards of performance. This will be particularly important as the VPs shift to on-the-ground implementation. The company is right in letting its suppliers and contractors know about what it expects from them with regard to human rights initiatives such as the VPs. In the future, ExxonMobil should communicate the extent to which these expectations are part of supply contract requirements. Lastly, the company should continue to reach its own decisions, but it should engage in a meaningful dialogue with affected stakeholders, including critics, and respond to the feedback it receives. Leadership transition As the bar continues to rise for good corporate citizenship, ExxonMobil will face increasingly higher expectations from investors and other stakeholders related to the company’s management of environmental, social and governance issues. Strong leadership is more important than ever to demonstrate a sound management approach to these issues. Early 2017 brought a number of important leadership changes to the company, including the appointment of two new board members, as well as a new chairman and CEO. These changes reflect a diversity of gender, background and perspective, which we hope will better position the company to address these demands. We welcome these new leaders and look forward to working with them and the company’s senior executives as they set the direction for the years ahead. Sincerely, Mark Cohen, Frank Loy, Jane Nelson, Salil Tripathi June 2017 Discussion of challenges on key issues ExxonMobil announced significant oil discoveries offshore Guyana. How does ExxonMobil approach social, environmental and safety considerations when starting offshore development and production activities? We work in over 100 countries around the world that span a wide range of natural, economic and social conditions. In some places, our industry has had a long presence. In others, oil and natural gas is an emerging sector. Everywhere we work, we are committed to conducting business in a manner that is compatible with the environmental and economic needs of the communities in which we operate. When we go into a new country for our major Upstream projects, we conduct research and engage with local stakeholders including government, communities and local experts to develop a thorough understanding of current conditions from a safety, social and environmental perspective. During this process, we undertake environmental, socioeconomic and health assessments to understand the potential impacts from our operations. We incorporate this understanding into our project design and management plans to effectively mitigate risks. Such assessments are often required by host-country governments, but we go through the process even when it is not mandatory. This allows us to identify opportunities and risks early on in the planning process and take appropriate steps. We followed this approach in Guyana, where in 2015 ExxonMobil announced the first major oil and gas discovery in the country. Prior to drilling even the first exploration well, ExxonMobil engaged with government and community stakeholders, including local scientists and experts, to build an understanding of our potential project impacts and appropriate protective measures.  We also consulted with the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission and the Guyana Environmental Protection Agency to develop a technical workshop series on oil and gas development, globally recognized best practices, international standards and environmental management technologies. Our partnership will help Guyana develop the capabilities it needs to manage oil and gas development, and we will continue working with local stakeholders through the duration of our project in the country. What is ExxonMobil doing to promote respect for human rights within its operations and in the supply chain? ExxonMobil actively promotes respect for human rights everywhere we work. We operate in some challenging environments where human rights issues — such as security, land and water access, forced labor and treatment of indigenous peoples — are a key concern to local communities. We believe the quality of the relationships we develop with local communities has a direct impact on the long-term success of our activities, and that our business presence can and does have a positive influence. We work with suppliers and business partners who share our commitment to human rights. We also actively engage with host governments to support security and respect for human rights in and near our operations. In 2016, we made progress in a number of human rights-related areas: • We published our ExxonMobil Supplier Expectations, a set of guidelines for our contractors and suppliers that covers human rights. These Expectations include references to key international human rights frameworks such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Starting in 2017, the Supplier Expectations will become part of ExxonMobil’s annual letter to our suppliers. • We supported the creation of an in-country network to support the further implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights in Nigeria. This network will enhance local collaboration on security and human rights among governments, nongovernmental organizations, companies and other stakeholders. • We continued to train our workforce on human rights issues. For example, since late 2015, more than 1,200 of our key employees in 46 countries have completed our new computer-based human rights training. Suzanne McCarron, ExxonMobil vice president of public and government affairs, has worldwide responsibility for the company’s public policy, government relations, communications, media relations and corporate citizenship activities. Suzanne authors the Perspectives blog on our Energy Factor website, which encourages discourse on constructive solutions to energy challenges. There have been several safety incidents associated with contract labor in the oil and gas sector. What is ExxonMobil doing to ensure its contractors receive the same safety training as its employees? Our efforts are driven by our world-class Operations Integrity Management System. This system sets the foundation for our company’s focus on safety throughout our worldwide operations. Employees and contractors alike are properly trained to perform their work in a safe manner. We develop work plans tailored to our projects to ensure our workers get both the basic and specialized safety training they need for their specific jobs. We provide standardized training at regional safety training centers and work directly with contractors to make sure everyone working at our sites understands ExxonMobil’s safety procedures and is competent to perform assigned tasks prior to starting work. For higher-risk activities, we have more stringent expectations, such as requiring certification prior to engaging in a particular activity. In some locations, we have helped build training centers where none previously existed. For example, we sponsored Survival Systems Training Limited in Nova Scotia, Canada. This organization provides training to employees and contractors working offshore on topics such as helicopter safety and firefighting. Safety briefings conducted at our operating sites give employees and contractors an opportunity to share safety observations and encourage safe behaviors. In addition, our procurement staff uses safety criteria to screen potential contractors that will be working on construction projects or at our major operations. The guidelines include having a robust safety program and leadership commitment to strong safety performance. Our goal is to work with companies to promote excellent safety performance across all aspects of our business. Our strong safety culture has proven results. For example, our global contractor lost-time incident rate continues to be well below the industry average. In light of the recent repeal of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s 2016 final rule regarding payment reporting for the extractive industry, how will ExxonMobil work to promote transparency and revenue accountability in countries where it does business? ExxonMobil believes the most successful transparency initiatives are those that ensure each relevant public, private and societal entity is fully engaged and properly represented. In addition, initiatives must respect national sovereignty and local norms and apply to every company in all sectors: public, private, foreign and domestic. Therefore, we did not support the approach the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission took in its final rule in late 2016. ExxonMobil supports transparency initiatives that increase government engagement with citizens and improve governance and revenue accountability. We voluntarily disclose revenues paid to governments for the development of natural resources, subject to legal and contractual restrictions. Our long-standing efforts to promote revenue transparency help to reduce corruption, improve government accountability and promote greater economic stability worldwide. For many years, we have actively supported the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global program dedicated to strengthening governance by improving transparency and accountability in the extractives sector. We support the EITI application, validation and implementation processes in countries where we operate, and we are working with governments in a number of other countries that are considering joining EITI. We will continue to work constructively with governments considering new reporting rules to promote transparency and revenue accountability where we do business. Over the past year, ExxonMobil has been questioned about its research and positions regarding climate change. How is the company responding to the investigations in New York and Massachusetts? In late 2015 and 2016, the state attorneys general from New York and Massachusetts launched investigations into our past research and policy positions on climate change. We reject allegations that ExxonMobil suppressed climate change research or misled consumers or investors. We are responding in good faith while we continue to vigorously challenge the legality of the investigations. As of May 2017, the company has provided more than 2.8 million pages of documents in response. We look forward to an outcome that will put these false allegations to rest. ExxonMobil is a constructive participant in the discussion on climate change. We will continue to research the issue, support energy efficiency, work to reduce emissions, pursue new technologies and engage on effective policy approaches. Last fall you stated that the Paris Agreement was an “important step forward.” What is ExxonMobil doing to address the risks of climate change? The Paris Agreement signed by world leaders in 2016 showed the global community’s resolve to address climate change risks. We’re encouraged that the Paris Agreement creates an effective framework for all countries to address rising emissions. In fact, our company’s forecasts of greenhouse gas emissions are consistent with the aggregation of the Paris Agreement pledges. The world already has powerful tools for meeting growing global energy demand while reducing emissions. One is natural gas. Today in the United States, nearly one-third of the electricity is produced using natural gas. Our role as the country’s largest producer of natural gas — which can reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 60 percent versus power generation from coal — has helped bring carbon dioxide emissions in the United States to the lowest level since the early 1990s. Increasing use of natural gas means our overall energy mix is becoming less carbon intensive. Greater energy efficiency is also essential to addressing the risks of climate change. It might seem surprising, but a big part of ExxonMobil’s business is developing products and technologies that help save energy. Examples include our advanced automotive materials that make cars lighter and more fuel-efficient, and improved plastic packaging that reduces the energy needed to ship goods around the world. At the same time, the world will need breakthrough clean-energy technologies such as carbon capture and storage (CCS). ExxonMobil is investing heavily in CCS, including research in a novel technology that uses fuel cells that could make CCS more affordable and expand its use. We currently have an interest in a quarter of the world’s CCS capacity. We’re also investing in a broad portfolio of other technologies that could significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This includes pioneering research in next-generation biofuels, including sources like algae, which could reduce emissions without competing with food and water resources. And by installing equipment at our refineries and chemical plants to generate steam from waste heat — called cogeneration — we enable 6 million metric tons of greenhouse gases to be avoided each year. All told, we’ve invested approximately $8 billion since 2000 to develop lower-emission energy solutions. As our chairman and CEO Darren Woods has said, climate change is a serious topic, and it demands a serious approach. ExxonMobil is proud to be part of that discussion, and we will continue to be in the years ahead. ExxonMobil Energy Factor About this report and materiality About this report We developed the 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report in accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues), the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). ExxonMobil was a key contributor to IPIECA, IOGP and API’s updated Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2015), and this report reflects the new common reporting-level metrics. The majority of these indicators are also consistent with the indicators used by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; this report is informed by the G4 guidelines but has not been prepared in accordance with a particular GRI model. To help interested stakeholders easily access our key sustainability indicators, we have mapped relevant IPIECA, GRI and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) indicators on our website. Note that many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees. 2016 material issues Safety, health and the workplace • Emergency preparedness and response • Employee benefits and practices • Personnel and process safety • Product safety and responsibility • Product transportation safety • Workforce engagement • Workplace security • Worksite health and wellness Managing climate change risks • Developing technology solutions • Engaging on climate change policy • Mitigating emissions • Providing solutions for customers Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting IPIECA/GRI/SDG index This report covers ExxonMobil’s operations from January 1, 2016, through December 31, 2016, unless otherwise indicated. The report uses both qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and performance. For environmental and climate change data, units of measure are metric where noted. Financial information is reported in U.S. dollars. For information on forward-looking statements in the 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report, please see the cautionary note on the back cover. To learn more about our corporate citizenship initiatives, view previous reports or provide comments, please visit exxonmobil.com/citizenship or email citizenship@exxonmobil.com. Materiality A key step in developing this Corporate Citizenship Report is ensuring the content reflects ExxonMobil’s most material issues. According to IPIECA, material issues for sustainability Environmental performance • Air emissions • Biodiversity and ecosystem services • Decommissioning and rehabilitation of the environment • Environmental compliance • Environmental management approach • Spill performance • Water management Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments • Community relations • External stakeholder engagement • Human rights • Indigenous peoples reporting are those that, in the view of both the company’s management and its external stakeholders, have the potential to affect sustainability performance significantly. ExxonMobil has been conducting a materiality assessment to guide our reporting since 2006. For this 2016 report, we reevaluated and prioritized key sustainability issues for our business and key stakeholders. A cross-functional team of ExxonMobil managers reviewed stakeholder feedback and business information to prioritize sustainability issues. The issues that are most critical to the success of our business and to stakeholder interest are covered in detail in this report. Additional information is available on exxonmobil.com and in other company publications. Please see our IPIECA/GRI/SDG index for a detailed mapping of where information regarding all material issues is located. Our draft materiality assessment results were reviewed and updated by internal subject matter experts and the External Citizenship Advisory Panel during fall 2016. Note that the concept of “material issues” under IPIECA guidelines used for purposes of this report is not meant to correspond to the concept of materiality for purposes of securities laws and disclosures required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules. Our material issues are listed below. Local development and supply chain management • Local economic growth and development • Supply chain management Corporate governance • Board leadership • Ethics and integrity • Executive compensation and strategic advantage • Political advocacy and contributions • Shareholder relations • Transparency Business operations (included throughout report) • Energy future and portfolio management • Management systems • Operating in sensitive environments 1 Safety, health and the workplace Safety A commitment to safety is a core value and an integral part of ExxonMobil’s culture. Our aim is to ensure each employee and contractor leaves work each day safe and in good health. We will never stop working toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s approach to managing safety, including our Operations Integrity Management System, visit our safety and security webpage. Safety and security Personnel safety ExxonMobil expects every employee and third-party contractor to identify, assess and mitigate the risks associated with our daily operations. In 2016, we achieved our best-ever safety performance. We have reduced our workforce lost-time incident rate by more than 80 percent since 2000. While this number is declining, safety incidents and near-misses do occur. We deeply regret that three contractors were fatally Up Close: Hoover-Diana celebrates personnel and process safety success One of the most significant measures of success for ExxonMobil is our safety performance. In 1998, ExxonMobil began working to develop the Hoover-Diana field, a deepwater oil and gas development located in the Gulf of Mexico. At the time of completion, the platform was the first floating drilling and production platform to develop two fields simultaneously at a depth of 4,800 feet of water. This engineering feat required diligent personnel and process safety management. ExxonMobil personnel have successfully completed more than 950 work-years of safe operations at the platform. “I am proud of the best-ever safety performance we achieved in 2016. Even so, there is still room for improvement, and we will never stop working toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt.” Lynne Lachenmyer Safety, security, health and environment vice president injured in separate incidents related to ExxonMobil operations in 2016. The incidents were related to a maintenance accident at one of our facilities, an incident at one of our onshore drilling sites and an incident aboard a marine vessel preparing to offload supplies at one of our offshore platforms. We thoroughly investigated each incident to determine contributing factors, then enhanced our work practices and facilities accordingly to help prevent future occurrences. We have processes in place to review all incidents, even those that did not result in injuries, to identify opportunities to improve. By applying this process, we continuously work toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. For additional information on third-party supplier and contractor safety, see the personnel safety section of our safety and security webpage. Safety and security Process safety ExxonMobil takes a comprehensive approach to managing process safety. Process safety refers to the equipment, Lost-time incident rate1 Incidents per 200,000 work hours 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0 ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark In 2016, our workforce lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.029, a decrease from the previous year. Over the past decade, we have reduced this rate by 40 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to be below the industry average. 1Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year, illness-related incidents range from 2 to 13 percent. procedures and training that prevent the uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons and hazardous substances. We identify then eliminate or mitigate process safety risks associated with our operations by employing structured processes and procedures that serve as preventive safeguards and help us avoid incidents. For information on Tier 1 process safety events, visit the process safety section of our safety and security webpage. Safety and security ExxonMobil is committed to working with scientists and local partners to develop and commercialize technologies that enhance process safety. For example, in 2016, ExxonMobil Research Qatar, in partnership with Providence Photonics LLC, conducted field tests of a remote gas detection system in Qatar. The system provides a highly sensitive and accurate early warning of hydrocarbon leaks. We evaluated the system’s durability and performance by challenging it in various environmental conditions such as high heat and humidity, dust, sand and dense fog during the field test. Total recordable incident rate2 Incidents per 200,000 work hours 1.0 0.90 0.80 0.70 0.60 0.50 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.10 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark In 2016, ExxonMobil’s total recordable workforce incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.20, a slight decrease from 2015. Since 2007, we have reduced this rate by 47 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to be below the industry average. 2Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year, illness-related incidents range from 3 to 10 percent. Product stewardship We recognize the importance of managing and communicating product safety information to those who handle and use ExxonMobil products. Our Product Stewardship Information Management System applies common global processes and computer systems to capture and communicate information on the safe handling, transport, use and disposal of our products, as well as emergency contact information. This System enables ExxonMobil businesses to comply with changing regional and national hazard communication regulations, including the adoption of the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling Chemicals developed by the United Nations. As of year-end 2016, more than 55,000 safety data sheets for ExxonMobil products and manufacturing streams were authored and distributed as part of the implementation of this guidance by national and regional regulatory authorities in several countries. Due to the evolving nature of regulatory requirements, we continually monitor developments to make sure our products comply with applicable regulations. 2016 emergency response data At ExxonMobil, we routinely train emergency support group personnel on a range of possible scenarios, including simulated spills, fires, explosions, natural disasters and security incidents. In 2016, our activities included the following: 21 Emergency support group training sessions 577 ExxonMobil personnel Product transportation safety As part of our commitment to product stewardship, we manage the safety, health and environmental aspects of transporting our products, including by marine, pipeline and rail transportation. ExxonMobil’s worldwide marine business, which involves about 500 vessels in daily service, logged more than 20,000 voyages and 45,000 port calls in 2016, safely transporting approximately 1.4 billion barrels of crude oil and refined products, without a spill to water. The ExxonMobil Pipeline Company and its affiliates safely transport almost 3 million barrels per day of crude oil, refined products and other important products. We operate approximately 4,000 miles of active pipelines in the United States every day. We carefully maintain and monitor our infrastructure worldwide to identify and prevent corrosion, third-party damage or illegal intrusions onto our rights of way. For information on utilization of rail transport for crude oil, please see the product transportation safety section of our safety and security webpage. Safety and security Emergency preparedness and response ExxonMobil maintains a strong emphasis on training for effective emergency response capabilities. We establish strategic emergency support groups (ESGs) around the world to develop and practice emergency response strategies and assist field responders. Regardless of the size of an incident, each ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to an array of trained responders, including our regional response teams (RRT), which provide rapid tactical support when needed. Each RRT participates in annual training programs with business line personnel, response organizations and relevant government authorities in the designated region. Severe wildfires in 2016 resulted in one of the largest fire-related evacuations in Canadian history, impacting residents in 12 local communities and requiring production to be shut down at Imperial Oil’s Kearl oil sands mine and at its Syncrude joint venture operation. Imperial Oil is a majority-owned affiliate of ExxonMobil. In response, an ESG was assembled by Imperial Oil to manage the impacts to our business and support efforts of the Alberta government to help the community. The ESG supported the evacuation of approximately 3,000 people without incident, developed an air quality monitoring process and conducted regular communications with employees and the community to ensure their needs were being met. In support of the community, the Imperial Oil Foundation also donated $100,000 to the Canadian Red Cross, gasoline to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and accommodations for evacuated employees, their families and other impacted residents of Northern Alberta. “Since the beginning of the evacuation in May 2016, Imperial Oil employees were in contact with Fort McKay First Nation to lend their support and ensure the health and safety of our community. The commitment of Imperial Oil employees to assisting Fort McKay during this crisis is something to be commended.” Chief Jim Bouchier Fort McKay First Nation Worksite health and wellness ExxonMobil promotes a work environment that helps our employees and their families pursue healthy lifestyles, including prevention of infectious diseases. Our goal is to address the diverse health risks prevalent in the locations where we operate and to protect the health, safety and productivity of our workers while preserving our business operations. We have addressed the threats of malaria, tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, Ebola, Zika and other outbreaks in our workplace through effective and efficient prevention and control programs. Since 2007, no malaria deaths have been reported among our workers. Additionally, none of the approximately 100 active tuberculosis cases diagnosed in our workforce since 2010 have infected another worker on our sites, and no operational disruption has been reported due to an outbreak during that time. For information on ExxonMobil’s Culture of Health program, which supports the health, safety and wellness of our employees, please visit our health and wellness webpage. Health and wellness Workforce engagement ExxonMobil maintains a culture of diversity and inclusion, upholds disciplined employment practices, and offers robust training and benefit programs that promote employee retention. We cultivate a diverse workforce of highly talented individuals who are dedicated to integrity and high-quality work. We support voluntary, employee-led networks that foster a culture of diversity and inclusion by offering development programs, community service opportunities and mentoring. For information on ExxonMobil’s employment practices, see our employment practices webpage. Employment practices Within ExxonMobil’s executive employee population, 18 percent are women. This represents an increase of 50 percent over the past decade. This increase, in part, is a result of continued focus on early identification and focused development of high-performing female employees. Additionally, approximately 15 percent of our U.S. executives are minorities, an increase of 79 percent over the past 10 years, facilitated by a consistent focus on minority management development. For information on our local hiring practices outside the United States, see page 38. To increase the representation of minorities and female employees in our U.S. operations, we implement a wide range of education programs and recruiting activities intended to reach a diverse pool of highly qualified candidates. In 2016, “I was fortunate to be involved as a founding member of the Asian Connection for Excellence (ACE) chapter at the Chemical Company headquarters in Houston. When I relocated to Beaumont, Texas, I realized the need to establish a chapter in Beaumont as well. Understanding inclusion and diversity is one of the most important aspects in conducting business. ExxonMobil recognizes the importance of having an open dialogue about cultural differences and how that drives better business results.” Matthew Lim ExxonMobil Chemical Company aromatics technical supervisor we provided 38 technical scholarships to minorities across the United States. Additionally, 43 percent of engineering hires in the United States were women, higher than the U.S. percentage of female engineering students. For additional information on the percentage of women and minorities by position in the United States, see the performance data table. As a global organization, the diversity and inclusion of thought, skill, knowledge and culture across our company facilitates innovation and is a key competitive advantage. As demand for science, technology, engineering and mathematics workers continues to increase worldwide, we support immigration policies that will help U.S. companies fill their high-skilled workforce needs. ExxonMobil offers robust corporate and technical training programs designed to engage employees in professional development. Our major business units spent $108 million on training employees during 2016. Of that, we directed 76 percent toward professional and technical training. In 2016, more than 4,600 employees at various levels of the company participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training programs, of which 32 percent were women and 58 percent were employees from outside the United States. For additional information on training expenditures and the number of employees trained, please see the performance data table. We retain and develop our diverse workforce by providing an environment where personal and professional growth is encouraged and career objectives are developed and achieved. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s employment policies, as well as our approach to retention and engagement, please see our workforce engagement webpage. Workforce engagement Up Close: Promoting Zika awareness and preparedness among ExxonMobil employees We believe proactive communication and awareness is critical to limiting the consequences of outbreaks on worker health, productivity and business operations. In 2016, the World Health Organization declared Zika a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. We established a corporate working group to educate our workers on prevention, preparedness and response techniques across our global worksites. Preparedness strategies included mitigation in active Zika areas, traveler notification of potential risks, and employee access to referrals for Zika diagnosis and treatment. Additionally, ExxonMobil took proactive steps at all potentially impacted sites to establish mosquito control plans and to identify a site Zika contact in worksites located in high-risk areas. In 2016, 40 employees and contractors were impacted by the Zika virus. We will continue to enhance our education and awareness efforts to help reduce this number. Malick Diara, Amanda Brown, Johnnie Richard and Cathy Simmons from ExxonMobil’s medicine and occupational health group host an information session about Zika prevention. 2016 workforce by geographic region3 Thousands of employees Africa/Middle East 3.6 Canada 6.7 United States Asia Pacific 13.3 Europe Latin America 14.9 3.5 Our global reach directly contributes to the diversity of our workforce and the success of our business. In 2016, our total workforce was approximately 71,100, slightly lower than the total workforce in 2015. The largest concentration of ExxonMobil employees is in the United States with 29,100, followed by Europe and Asia Pacific with 14,900 and 13,300, respectively. 3Data exclude company-operated retail store employees. 2016 female representation in ExxonMobil worldwide workforce 40% of our worldwide management and professional new hires over the past decade were women 32% of our management and professional population are women 35% of our worldwide engineering hires are women Up Close: Improving road safety in Nigeria According to the World Health Organization, the total number of road traffic deaths in Nigeria is more than 35,000 per year. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mobil Producing Nigeria and the Federal Road Safety Corps implemented the second phase of an ExxonMobil-supported road safety awareness campaign in 2016 that aims to foster safe driving practices and enhance overall safety among road users in Nigeria. This behavioral campaign utilizes a two-pronged approach that includes messaging on billboards as well as skills training for public transportation drivers and company logistics teams. The Federal Road Safety Corps cites a 20 percent reduction in road accidents due to the program’s sustained efforts since 2014. We have implemented similar programs in other areas of our operations and continue to seek new opportunities to improve road safety. 2016 minority representation in ExxonMobil U.S. workforce 30% of our management and professional new hires in the United States over the past decade were minorities 30% of our management and professional population in the United States are minorities 36% of our engineering hires in the United States are minorities ExxonMobil and Synthetic Genomics, Inc. are partnering to develop breakthroughs in algae biofuels, a critical step toward sustainable biofuel production. 