ExxonMobil’s Advancing Climate Solutions Progress Report outlines the company’s approach to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions in support of a net-zero future . As the world continues to face the challenge of securing adequate energy supply while ensuring the energy transition proceeds at pace – divergent views have emerged . There are some who believe that society’s efforts should be solely directed toward the energy transition without considering the very real consequences of not ensuring energy security . ExxonMobil and others see the situation for what it is: There are two challenges of great importance, both necessitating the full cooperation and effort of companies, governments, and NGOs worldwide in order to address these critical issues . In this edition of our Advancing Climate Solutions Progress Report, we share the ways in which ExxonMobil remains determined to tackle head-on the challenge of strengthening energy supply security and reducing emissions to support a net-zero future while growing value for our shareholders and stakeholders . We discuss the ways we will continue delivering solutions that lower the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of our portfolio and help meet society’s growing need for affordable and reliable energy and products . What’s new? • Increased the amount we intend to invest from 2022 through 2027 on lower-emission initiatives to approximately $17 billion, up by nearly 15% . • Achieved highest refinery throughput since 20071 and prepared to bring 250,000 barrels per day of expanded refining capacity on line in early 2023 – all in an effort to meet society’s needs by providing additional supply . • Deployed new technology to expand measurement and mitigation of methane emissions, and reduced methane emissions intensity from operated assets by more than 40% as of year-end 2021 versus 2016 levels in line with greenhouse gas emission-reduction plans . • Remained on track to eliminate routine flaring in our Permian Basin operated assets by the end of 2022 in support of the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring Initiative . • Grew and strengthened our Low Carbon Solutions business by focusing on competitively advantaged opportunities in carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, and biofuels . This included tripling the organization's size and signing the largest commercial agreement of its kind to capture and store CO.. • Reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity by 9%, as we continue progress toward our 2030 greenhouse gas emission-reduction plans . These intensity reductions led to our absolute emissions falling by about 13% . These results are on an operated basis as of year-end 2021 versus 2016 levels . • Improved the expected carbon intensity of our portfolio on a life-cycle basis . • Increased plastics production capacity by nearly 10% to meet growing global needs, support low-carbon technologies, and avoid emissions,2 while helping address the issue of plastic waste by starting up one of the largest advanced recycling facilities in North America . • Advocated for supportive policies that would expand opportunities in lower-emission solutions, including methane regulations and enhanced incentives for carbon capture and storage and hydrogen under the U .S . Inflation Reduction Act . Reducing emissions intensity Our 2030 GHG emission-reduction plans 20-30% 40-50% 70-80% 60-70% Reduction in corporate-wide Reduction in upstream Reduction in corporate-wide Reduction in corporate-wide greenhouse gas intensity . greenhouse gas intensity . methane intensity . flaring intensity . Versus 2016 levels . Applies to Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from operated assets .  Our 2030 emission-reduction plans are intensity • Absolute flaring reduction of approximately 60% . based. They focus on driving industry-leading • Absolute reduction in methane emissions by 70% . performance while still meeting the needs of society. These plans include actions that are also expected • World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 . to achieve: These emission-reduction plans cover Scope 1 and 2 • Absolute reduction in corporate-wide greenhouse emissions from assets we operate, compared to gas emissions by approximately 20% (or 2016 levels . For non-operated assets, we work with approximately 23 million metric tons) . our equity partners to advance greenhouse gas reductions to achieve comparable results . • Absolute reduction in upstream greenhouse gas emissions of approximately 30% (or approximately 15 million metric tons) .  Lower-emission investments Through 2027, we plan to invest approximately $17 billion on initiatives to lower greenhouse gas emissions, an increase of nearly 15% from the amount we announced last year . These investments are designed to make possible reduced emissions in our operations and are also directed toward reducing others’ emissions through commercializing and scaling carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, and biofuels . Advocating for policy support Policy support, along with technology advancements, can and will further accelerate development and deployment of lower-emission technologies necessary to arrive at a net-zero future . We have consistently advocated for sound government policies like enhanced incentives for carbon capture and storage and hydrogen . We also support market-based, technology-neutral policies that recognize the value of addressing full life-cycle emissions versus focusing solely on Scope 3 emissions, thereby incentivizing companies to take actions that reduce emissions, while still meeting the world’s demand for essential energy and products . To meet a net-zero goal, companies must fully understand net emissions and have a consistent means of comparing themselves against others in their industry . Outlook for Energy (Outlook)4 The 2022 Outlook for Energy is ExxonMobil’s latest projection of energy supply and demand through 2050 using models based on current trends in economic development, technology, global policies, geopolitics, and consumer behavior . All energy sources are projected to remain important through 2050, with oil and natural gas accounting for 55% of the world’s energy mix in 2050 . human development in the developing world. are needed to reach a Lower 2˚C pathway. The industrial sector represents 50% of energy consumption to produce society’s goods and infrastructure. Biofuels, hydrogen-based fuels, and carbon capture and storage offer lower-emission solutions for hard-to-decarbonize sectors. Energy demand for transportation rises 30% as the growing middle class increases travel and buys more goods. Source: ExxonMobil 2022 Outlook for Energy Oil and natural gas continue to play an important role. Sustained investment is needed to meet demand. Many products, from plastics to fabrics to construction materials, are petroleum-based, resulting in increased industrial demand for oil as both a raw material and energy source . Global demand growth for raw materials into chemical products (such as plastics used in medical supplies, lighter-weight vehicles, food packaging, and more) is expected to double from 2021 to 2050 .5 ExxonMobil remains resilient through the energy transition We have continued to test the resiliency of our business and investment portfolio against a range of future scenarios that are aligned with the goals of the Paris Agreement, including the International Energy Agency’s (IEA) Net Zero Emissions by 2050 (NZE) scenario . These resiliency tests demonstrate that our business is positioned for growth even in an aggressive decarbonization pathway, driven by the growth potential for chemicals, lower-emission fuels, carbon capture and storage, and hydrogen opportunities, which are critical to achieve net zero . For more than 140 years, we have been a leader in innovation, supplying the energy and products people need to live healthy, prosperous lives in the modern world . We are continuing this legacy of innovation by doing our part to provide energy security and evolving our operations in ongoing support of a net-zero future – all while creating long-term shareholder value . We are focused on five strategic priorities to create sustainable solutions that improve quality of life and meet society’s evolving needs . • Leading performance: Industry leader in shareholder returns; earnings and cash flow growth; safety; reliability; greenhouse gas emissions intensity; and cost and capital efficiency . • Essential partner: Create value through win-win solutions for our customers, partners, and other stakeholders, including communities in which we operate . • Advantaged portfolio: Portfolio of assets and products that outperform competition and grow value in a lower-emission future; flexible portfolio of industry-leading, high-return investments that strengthen our competitive position in an evolving world . • Innovative solutions: Develop new products, approaches and technologies to improve competitiveness and accelerate large-scale deployment of solutions essential to modern life and a lower-emission future . • Meaningful development: A diverse and engaged We plan to play a leading role in the energy organization that provides every individual transition as we retain investment flexibility across unrivaled opportunities for personal and a portfolio of evolving opportunities to maximize professional growth with impactful work meeting shareholder returns . society’s evolving needs . With advancements in technology and the support of clear and consistent government policies, we aim to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions in our operated assets by 2050 . ExxonMobil’s net-zero ambition is backed by a comprehensive approach centered on detailed emission-reduction roadmaps for our major operated assets . We completed these roadmaps in 2022, and will be updating them as needed to reflect technology, policy, and other developments, including the development and acquisition of major operated assets . One example of our roadmap approach is our Permian Basin unconventional operations, where we announced industry-leading plans to reach net-zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030 . We are working to electrify operations with lower-emission power, which may include wind, solar, and natural gas . We are also working to expand and accelerate our methane detection and mitigation technology, eliminate routine flaring, upgrade equipment, and employ high-quality emissions offsets, which may include nature-based solutions . 6 2030 greenhouse gas emission-reduction plans7 Our 2030 plans are expected to result in a 20-30% reduction in corporate-wide greenhouse gas intensity, including reductions of 40-50% in upstream intensity, 70-80% in corporate-wide methane intensity and 60.70% in corporate-wide flaring intensity . These plans apply to Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions from our operated assets versus 2016 levels . Our actions to reduce emissions through 2030 include: • Achieving net-zero Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions in our Permian Basin unconventional operated assets . • Deploying carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, and lower-emission fuels in our operations . • Further reducing methane emissions at operated assets in alignment with the Global Methane Pledge and Oil and Gas Climate Initiative developed Aiming for Zero Methane Emissions Initiative by deploying best practices and advanced technologies, including satellite, aerial, and ground-sensor networks . • Further reducing flaring in upstream operations to meet the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring Initiative, which mitigates methane and greenhouse gas emissions . • Integrating lower greenhouse gas energy sources into our facilities, for example through long-term renewable power purchase agreements and equipment electrification . • Improving energy efficiency in our businesses by adapting operational and maintenance processes, such as improving furnace efficiency . • Substituting blue hydrogen for natural gas to reduce emissions from our manufacturing operations . Corporate-wide operated methane emissions intensity • Deploying innovative lower-emission solutions to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions with future advancements in technology and supportive policies . We are working to continuously improve our performance, methods to detect and address methane emissions, and our measurement of emissions, with the aim to lower our emissions in support of our greenhouse gas emissions plans . 7,8 Corporate-wide operated hydrocarbon flaring intensity Upstream operated GHG emissions intensity Approach to greenhouse gas emissions reductions in business planning Actions needed to advance our 2030 greenhouse gas emission-reduction plans are incorporated into our medium-term business plans, which we update annually . The reference case for planning beyond 2030 including impairment assessments and future planned development activities is based on our Outlook for Energy . The Outlook is reflective of the existing global policy environment and does not attempt to project the degree of necessary future policy and technology advancement and deployment for the world, or ExxonMobil, to meet net zero by 2050 . As policies are implemented and technology advancements emerge, they will be incorporated into the Outlook, and our business plans will be updated accordingly . Potential GHG abatement options for ExxonMobil operated assets supporting 2030 GHG emission-reduction plans6 Roadmap 2016  2021  Energy  Flare &  Operations/ Electrification/ CCS, hydrogen,  2030  intensity  intensity  efficiency  methane  reconfigurations PPAs/RECs/  and/or future  intensity  minimization  high-quality  advancements  offsets  Positioning for a lower-emission future We have evolved our operating model, enabling efficiencies that better leverage the scale of an increasingly integrated company . At the same time, we have centralized many of the skills and capabilities required by our businesses, allowing us to improve allocation of critical resources; enable continuous improvement, including detection and measurement of emissions; and drive value . This serves us well in a variety of future scenarios, irrespective of the pace of the energy transition . Core businesses • Upstream is critical to strengthening energy security by expanding our low-cost-of-supply, high-return oil and natural gas operations . • Product Solutions consolidates Downstream and Chemical to form the world’s largest downstream and chemical company developing high-value innovative products needed by modern society . • Low Carbon Solutions helps to lower society’s greenhouse gas emissions by providing solutions in growing markets for carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, and biofuels . It also supports reducing emissions from our major operations and products . Evolving our model to strengthen competitiveness Realizing full set of corporate competitive advantages Delivering solutions Product Low Carbon Solutions Solutions Technology and Engineering Global Projects Global Services & Corporate Functions • Fully capturing benefits of scale and integration • Central ownership for enterprise-wide capabilities, practices, and processes • Leveraging synergies across businesses • Harmonizing practices and processes • Consolidating capabilities and skills • Allocating critical resources to highest • Eliminating duplication and redundancy priorities LNG 1Q Oil and 1Q 2Q 3Qflowing gas Operated GHG IntensExpected ExxonMobil performance  2Q 3Q ity (T CO2e/100 T)   Upstream We are well positioned to help meet the need for oil and natural gas through the next decade and beyond, delivering value by reducing structural costs, growing high-value production at low cost of supply, and improving emissions intensity .9  As part of our net-zero ambition, we have identified more than 100 potential modifications to reduce emissions across all upstream asset types including energy efficiency measures and equipment upgrades . Examples include carbon capture and storage at operations in the U .S ., Australia, and Canada; electrification of compressors and heaters in our Permian operations; and replacement of  pneumatic devices with electrical or mechanical devices to eliminate fugitive emissions in natural gas operations . These examples demonstrate our capacity to lead industry as a responsible operator and are expected to deliver first quartile Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity performance by 2030 for each resource type when benchmarked against other operators based upon available data .9  Unconventional operations We have set a goal to be net zero in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 for our Permian Basin unconventional operated assets . The enhancements in our unconventional operations include electrification, improving processes, minimizing flaring, and using electricity from renewables and other lower-emission sources . Our efforts have already helped us achieve the top certification for methane emissions management at our Poker Lake, New Mexico, facilities from independent validator MiQ . Liquefied natural gas (LNG) ExxonMobil is progressing development of approximately 12 million metric tons per year of low-cost, high-efficiency liquefaction capacity to meet expected global demand growth for LNG . This includes diverse projects in the U .S ., Papua New Guinea, Mozambique, and Qatar with operations to be among industry’s lowest in greenhouse gas intensity .10 Deepwater ExxonMobil’s deepwater oil and gas developments are being designed to support our 2030 greenhouse gas emission-reduction plans . For example, offshore Guyana, the Liza Unity floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel was awarded the SUSTAIN-1 notation by the American Bureau of Shipping . It is the first FPSO in the world to achieve this recognition for its sustainable design and operating procedures . Product Solutions Our Product Solutions business plays a critical role in providing products that are needed for modern life . Our customers want high-value products with lower life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions, which requires product innovation and emissions intensity reductions in our manufacturing processes . Our refining and chemicals businesses each operate within the first quartile for greenhouse gas intensity .11 Through 2030, we expect to more than offset emissions from new operated facilities needed to meet growing demand . Our emission-reduction plans consider fuel switching to hydrogen; carbon capture and storage projects in Houston, Rotterdam, Scotland, and Antwerp; renewable power purchase agreements; energy efficiency projects; and conversions of select refineries to terminals . Source: ExxonMobil 2022 Outlook for Energy, ExxonMobil analysis Energy products Demand for conventional fuels is expected to peak this decade and then begin to decline, while demand for energy-dense, lower-emission fuels is expected to grow rapidly, driven by hard-to-decarbonize transportation sectors such as aviation, marine, and heavy-duty trucking . More than 75% of our manufacturing capacity is co-located in large, integrated sites that have the flexibility to shift product yield to best meet society’s evolving needs . As demand for conventional road transport fuels declines, select assets can be repurposed to manufacture high-value products including chemicals, lubricants, and lower-emission fuels . We continue to improve our portfolio, focusing investments on those major assets in locations with sound comprehensive carbon policy . Our investments in North America, China, and Singapore will help meet the growing demand for products with lower life-cycle emissions, and the flexibility of our sites will allow us to change as society’s needs evolve . Chemical products Global chemical demand is expected to grow faster than the global economy,13 driven by demand for products like cell phones and medical supplies, as well as products necessary to preserve food and improve hygiene . Demand for performance chemicals, including our performance polyethylene and polypropylene, is expected to remain strong and resilient through the energy transition . These products support customers’ efficiency and greenhouse gas emission-reduction needs . To further support our customers, we continue to grow the supply of performance chemicals through large, competitively advantaged investments such as: • The Gulf Coast Growth Venture, which started up at the end of 2021, ahead of schedule and under budget . The operation includes a 1 .8 million-metric-ton-per-year ethane steam cracker, two polyethylene units capable of producing up to 1 .3 million metric tons per year, and a monoethylene glycol unit with a capacity of 1 .1 million metric tons per year . Major expansions Performance polypropylene – Baton Rouge, Louisiana Performance chemicals – Baytown, Texas Refinery expansion – Beaumont, Texas Performance chemicals – Guangdong, China Lubricants and chemicals – Singapore 14 Advanced recycling Baton Rouge, Louisiana Antwerp, Belgium Baytown, Texas Gravenchon, France Beaumont, Texas Rotterdam, Netherlands Joliet, Illinois Singapore Sarnia, Canada Biofuels Renewable diesel – Strathcona, Canada and Slagen, Norway Bio co-processing – Sarnia, Canada Other U.S. Gulf Coast refinery reconfigurations China lubricants expansion • The Baton Rouge, Louisiana, performance polypropylene project, which started up in fourth quarter 2022, expanded our production capacity along the Gulf Coast by 450,000 metric tons per year . • The Baytown, Texas, chemical expansion, which will produce about 400,000 metric tons of VistamaxxTM polymers per year and about 350,000 metric tons of  Elevexx™ linear alpha olefins per year . • The chemical complex in Guangdong province, China, which includes performance polyethylene lines, differentiated performance polypropylene lines, and a flexible feed steam cracker with a capacity of about 1 .6 million metric tons per year . No single transition pathway can be reasonably predicted, given the wide range of uncertainties . Key unknowns include yet-to-be-developed government policies, market conditions, and advances in technology that may influence the cost, pace, and potential availability of certain pathways . Scenarios that employ a full complement of technology options are likely to provide the most economically efficient pathways . We use projections and scenarios from reputable third parties such as the IEA and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to help inform our thinking, including the resiliency of our portfolio and opportunities .26 While any one scenario may be remote in probability, all of these projections and scenarios are useful in informing our long-term strategic priorities (including potential investments, divestments, mergers, and acquisitions) as we evolve our businesses and integrate learnings to further improve resiliency . Most projections indicate the world population will grow and that people will strive for better living standards, driving greater energy demand . At the same time, aspirations to limit the rise of average global temperatures while ensuring reliable and affordable energy products mean that the energy system could be quite dynamic, with a range of scenarios in the energy transition pathway that may unfold . Our strategy, business model, and emission-reduction plans provide a framework for strengthening resiliency . As an integrated company with assets around the world, we believe taking a portfolio approach is the best way to make capital-allocation decisions, which drive future cash flows . This approach helps ensure flexibility and optionality to shift investments to adapt to an uncertain world and maximize value for our stakeholders . We evolve our portfolio to responsibly and efficiently meet needs for lower-emission intensity oil and natural gas, chemicals, and lubricants while advancing carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, and biofuels . In doing so, we position ExxonMobil to grow earnings, cash flow and shareholder value, even in aggressive emission-reduction scenarios like the IEA NZE . Our Outlook for Energy4 The Outlook for Energy is our latest view of energy demand and supply through 2050 . It forms the basis for our business planning and is underpinned by a deep understanding of long-term fundamentals . In addition to assessing trends in economic development, technology advances, and consumer behavior, the Outlook seeks to identify potential impacts of climate-related government policies, which often target specific sectors . To support a robust evaluation, our business planning process annually updates assumptions by major regions for crude oil and natural gas pricing . We look at refinery and chemical margins, production, and costs, including greenhouse gas emissions prices and policy . During the funding process, we actively test major investment opportunities on key aspects, such as financial performance and greenhouse gas intensity through an opportunity-specific, scenario-based evaluation process . This informs actions that are improving the portfolio mix, such as adding low cost-of-supply oil and gas production, as well as higher-value fuel and chemical products . This enhances resiliency and positions us to lead through the energy transition . We also publish components of this Outlook on our website so that interested parties can see our key assumptions and conclusions and the data and analysis behind them . Outlook highlights Energy and human development are tightly linked . Between now and 2050, the world population is expected to grow to almost 9 .7 billion from 7 .8 billion people, and global gross domestic product (GDP) is expected to more than double . Billions of people in developing economies are expected to see their incomes grow, translating to more demand for electricity, as well as for homes, transportation, consumer goods, and the energy to power them . Importantly, many across the globe will, during this period, have access to reliable energy for the first time . Key dimensions of the Outlook for Energy (Growth from 2021 to 2050) The Outlook projects efficiency gains that will reduce energy use per capita in developed countries . On the other hand, developing nations will increase energy use per capita as they pursue improved living standards . This growing demand in developing countries, which represent about 85% of the increased global population, leads to an estimated 15% increase in energy demand in 2050 versus 2021 . Energy-related greenhouse gas emissions are projected to peak by 2030 before declining about 24% by 2050, marking a significant improvement versus the emissions growth that occurred over the past decade . Efficiency gains and a shift in the energy mix, including increased use of lower-carbon sources, enable an improvement of more than 60% in the carbon emissions intensity of global GDP from 2021 to 2050 . The chart to the right highlights the mix of energy sources the Outlook projects will be needed to meet demand . Our projections are directionally similar to the IEA’s Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS), which is based on a sector-by-sector assessment of the current and announced government policies around the world . Both project that wind and solar will make up about 10% of primary energy demand in 2050, up from less than 2% today . Both also indicate that oil and natural gas will account for more than 50% of total primary energy in 2050 . Use of sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis provides greater perspective on how variations to our Outlook assumptions could affect projected energy supply and demand . Analyzing these sensitivities involves evaluating possible technology advancements and their potential impact on energy supply and demand . This results in a range of potential low- to high-demand outcomes for certain energy sources . The projections yielded by sensitivity analysis do not represent our viewpoint or the likelihood of these alternatives, but can provide context . Oil and natural gas remain important (Exajoules) In addition, a significant difference remains between projected emissions based on NDCs and emission pathways compatible with the long-term temperature goal set in the Paris Agreement . Compared to previous unconditional NDCs, the COP26 pledges by governments reduce projected 2030 greenhouse gas emissions by only 7 .5% . This is in the face of the 30% emission reduction needed to limit global average temperature increase to below 2°C, and the 55% needed to limit temperature increases to 1 .5°C .27 Comparing the IEA scenario that describes energy demand under stated policies (STEPS) with its scenario that describes energy demand under the announced pledges (APS) highlights that further policy to support emission reductions in all sectors will be required . In addition, innovation to provide new solutions for harder-to-abate sectors, such as heavy industry and commercial transportation, will be needed to further reduce global emissions to limit temperature rise to 2°C .  More is needed to put the world on a 2°C pathway The U .N . Environment Programme Emissions Gap Report states that current Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) to 2030, which were updated at COP26, are not yet within a Lower 2°C pathway . It further states that G20 members as a group do not have policies in place to achieve their current NDCs . According to the report, more government policy support is needed to potentially develop markets to achieve NDC goals and for the world to accelerate progress toward a 2°C pathway .27  Global GHG emissions28 (GT CO.e) Source: UNFCCC 2021 Synthesis Report, IPCC Sixth Assessment Report, ExxonMobil analysis . Range shown is interquartile within scenario group .  The Outlook estimates energy-related CO. emissions in 2050 to have dropped by 24% versus 2021 to 25 billion metric tons per year – approximately 20% lower than IEA STEPS and 35% higher than IEA APS .  The IPCC Lower 2°C scenarios produce a variety of views on projected global energy demand in total and by specific types of energy . This report uses the average of the scenarios’ growth rates per energy source to consider potential impacts on energy demand .32 This is shown together with the growth rates of the IEA NZE scenario, IEA STEPS, and the Outlook for Energy in the chart .  Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2021, IPCC Sixth Assessment Report, ExxonMobil analysis, ExxonMobil 2022 Outlook for Energy   These scenarios project total primary energy demand on a worldwide basis to only marginally increase, from zero to 0 .4% per year on average from 2010 to 2050, and assume that energy efficiency improvements would almost entirely offset population and economic growth . Expected demand and technologies deployed by 2050 vary by model and energy type . All energy sources remain important through 2050 across these scenarios, as the mix of energy and technology shifts over time .  CCS growth required in Lower 2ºC and IEA NZE scenarios (GT CO.) IPCC Lower 2°C IEA NZE Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2021, IPCC Sixth Assessment Report  Oil and natural gas remain essential components of the energy mix To meet the world’s oil demand in 2050 under the IEA NZE scenario, substantial new investments are required for oil and natural gas production to offset natural decline from producing fields . Only about half of the world’s oil demand will be met in 2050 under the IEA NZE scenario without additional drilling and investment . Natural gas is projected to have less demand reduction due to its many advantages, including lower greenhouse gas emissions . To ensure energy security and stable supply in the face of geopolitical instability, new discoveries will be needed even under IEA NZE . Limiting the supply of oil and natural gas when these energy sources will clearly continue to be essential could lead to shortages, regressive inflationary pressure, or an increase in societal greenhouse gas emissions because some may resort to more carbon-intense alternatives . This is not speculation . We see aspects of this phenomenon occurring today because of years of underinvestment, exacerbated by regional political instability and conflict . The third-party scenarios also illustrate that the energy transition will evolve differently in each region based on access to infrastructure, technology, policy, and resources . For instance, the transition is expected to evolve differently based on relative proximity to quality wind, solar, hydrocarbons, and carbon storage sites, among others . Additionally, access to reliable and affordable sources of energy in developing nations may affect their view of the urgency associated with climate change . Energy security is a concern for both developed and developing nations . These scenarios imply a range of lower-emission growth opportunities as highlighted in the chart, which looks across the IPCC Lower 2°C scenarios and illustrates the average (blue bars) growth potential of various lower-emission solutions . While all of these solutions are needed, the black bars represent the wide range of growth potential across the IPCC Lower 2°C scenarios . To support further deployment of these technologies at scale, additional policies and technology advancements are needed to incentivize investments and influence consumer behavior . Striking the right balance in investments at a pace consistent with policy support and technology advancements is crucial . Testing resiliency under the IEA NZE scenario26, 33 We have used the assumptions in the IEA NZE scenario to test the resiliency of our current portfolio even though the IEA acknowledges that society is not on the IEA NZE pathway . Our testing methodology uses IEA’s assumptions We modeled a hypothetical business and investment portfolio based on the IEA NZE scenario and used a respected third party to conduct an independent audit and confirm the integrity of our model . The analysis included existing operations and future opportunities across our businesses in oil, natural gas, fuels, lubricants, chemicals, lower-emission fuels, hydrogen, and carbon capture and storage . We used IEA NZE assumptions relevant to these business areas to inform demand and pricing in our model: • Oil prices decline to $24 per barrel by 2050; natural gas prices decline to $2-$4 .60 per million British thermal units depending on region (both in real terms, 2019 USD) . • Oil and natural gas demand declines from 53% of total primary energy in 2020 to 19% by 2050 . • Chemicals demand increases by 30% from 2020 to 2050, with 80% of production leveraging carbon capture and storage or hydrogen technology integration . • Carbon prices increase to $250 per metric ton in advanced economies, $200 per metric ton in China, Russia, Brazil, and South Africa, and $55 per metric ton in other emerging markets and developing economies (real terms, 2019 USD) . • Carbon capture and storage volumes expand rapidly from 40 million metric tons in 2020 to 7 .6 billion metric tons in 2050, supported by a range of measures to increase investment . • Lower-emission fuels, in which the IEA includes liquid biofuels, biogas and biomethane, and hydrogen-based fuels, increase from 1% of global final energy demand in 2020 to 20% in 2050 . • Hydrogen production increases by a factor of six, from 87 million metric tons in 2020 to 528 million metric tons in 2050 . We developed additional assumptions consistent with the IEA NZE narrative as needed to estimate the performance of our portfolio . To use the IEA NZE price assumptions, we assumed that current prices decline to conform to IEA published prices by 2025 and that the path is linear between the price assumptions that IEA provided by decade thereafter . The IEA NZE scenario did not provide assumed margins for refining and chemical businesses . Therefore, for refining, we assumed margins decline to the lowest level needed to incentivize production required to meet IEA NZE oil demand . For chemicals, we modeled margins consistent with history, at a level sufficient to support the investment necessary to meet chemicals demand growth per the IEA NZE; the margins decline over time, partially offset by inflation . For our Low Carbon Solutions business, we used IEA NZE demand assumptions and assumed the business investments attract reasonable returns based on our historical averages for similar business lines and products . Our modeling assumes that the resulting market position for existing and new areas as a percentage of demand under IEA NZE is in line with our current market positions in existing businesses . We assumed investment to abate estimated greenhouse gas emissions from our businesses by 2050 . Annual inflation was set to 2 .5% . We also assumed total capital expenditures through 2050 starting with our 2020 trailing five-year average and moving forward on a real basis, which is sufficient investment to maintain market share . On this basis, the results further support the growth in cash flow from our Low Carbon Solutions business under the IEA NZE scenario . Outcomes of our testing The chart illustrates potential changes to our business portfolio through 2050 from the modeling . It demonstrates that, under the IEA NZE assumptions, we have flexibility to continue to grow cash flows over time through reduced investments in oil and natural gas and increased investments in accretive projects in chemicals, carbon capture and storage, lower-emission fuels, and hydrogen . We disclose estimated operating cash flows over time, broken out by traditional oil and gas, chemicals, and Low Carbon Solutions to address enterprise resiliency questions . We believe this is a valuable, industry-leading disclosure, because it provides a clearer view of the resiliency and enterprise value of our portfolio, expertise, and opportunities than hypothetical non-cash accounting measures dependent on asset-specific assumptions not provided by the IEA NZE . Traditional O&G LCS Chemicals for a definition of operating cash flow . Traditional O&G LCS Chemicals Source: ExxonMobil analysis, IEA NZE by 2050 (2021) Our modeling illustrates a number of considerations for our businesses in an IEA NZE scenario . Through 2030, the upstream portfolio would further focus on resources with competitive cost while accelerating options to improve greenhouse gas emissions intensity . Assets with shorter production cycles, such as unconventional developments in the Permian, and a lower cost of supply, like deepwater production in Guyana, would continue to attract capital and generate competitive returns . The energy transition creates opportunities for our existing assets, which could provide additional business optionality . If the IEA NZE scenario’s long.term decline in oil and natural gas demand and pricing were to materialize, we would respond by ceasing oil and gas exploration in new basins along with reduced spending on new developments . Longer-term, through 2050 in this scenario, this potentially reduced investment would result in lower overall production as natural depletion outpaces investment in new volumes, with a continued portfolio focus on cost-efficient assets with low greenhouse gas emissions intensity . Existing oil and natural gas production assets would be optimized and operated as long as economically justified, consistent with IEA NZE assumptions, which project that global production of approximately 24 million barrels of oil and 170 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day would still be needed to meet demand in 2050 . In our Product Solutions portfolio, as production of traditional refined products declines through 2030 under the IEA NZE scenario, manufacturing sites would be reconfigured to shift production to meet the demand for non-combusted products like lubricants, basestocks, and chemicals, as well as to meet growth in lower-emission fuels and provide additional optionality for these assets in the energy transition . Current examples include investments and partnerships to increase renewable diesel production and transport, such as at our Strathcona refinery in Canada or Slagen facility in Norway . Demand growth for chemical products, many of which generate lower life-cycle emissions relative to available alternatives, would be supported by accretive investments in our chemicals business . Examples include expansions currently underway in the U .S . Gulf Coast and Singapore, and at our China chemical complex . Longer term through 2050, we would continue to optimize and potentially expand our integrated sites with flexibility to produce lower-emission fuels and chemicals while reducing their operational emissions . Additional integration with carbon capture and storage and/or fuel switching with hydrogen technology would further accelerate lowering greenhouse gas emissions intensity, with less advantaged sites potentially closed or converted to terminals . Under IEA NZE, significant growth potential exists in the Low Carbon Solutions portfolio in lower-emission fuels, carbon capture and storage, and hydrogen . Our core capabilities and advantages, including subsurface expertise, scaling major projects, existing assets including infrastructure, and our people, would continue to position us to effectively compete . Throughout the modeled period, the increasing IEA NZE carbon price would support accelerating attractive investments that would increase cash flow in Low Carbon Solutions, offsetting reduced investment in traditional oil, natural gas, and fuels refining . Through 2030, we would focus on scaling lower-emission fuels options to meet the expected growing demand . We would also pursue investments like the Baytown blue hydrogen project, acquisition of geologic storage to sequester CO., and participation in new potential industrial clusters that would accelerate new and existing infrastructure opportunities and position us as a partner of choice . Longer-term through 2050, the carbon price and demand for decarbonization options would continue to grow rapidly in the scenario, leading to a significant shift in our capital spend to further scale carbon capture and storage and hydrogen . Third-party independent audit of ExxonMobil’s modeling of IEA NZE After an extensive search, we enlisted an independent third party, Wood Mackenzie Inc ., to audit our portfolio model . The objectives of the audit were to confirm the integrity of the calculations and overall model functionality and to validate that the model accurately reflected the IEA NZE’s assumption inputs, ensuring the output is a reasonable expression of the portfolio mix as defined by the model inputs . The Wood Mackenzie audit included testing and confirming the integrity of the ExxonMobil Portfolio Model, including evaluation of each business under the IEA NZE . They also confirmed that the IEA NZE assumptions are accurately reflected in the portfolio model . Specifically, Wood Mackenzie validated the following: • The IEA Net Zero assumptions are accurately reflected in the model . • Model calculations are correct . • There are no data translation errors . • The output is a reasonable representation of    portfolio mix as defined by model inputs . As a global research and consultancy business with 50 years of experience, Wood Mackenzie partners with organizations to provide quality data, analytics, and insights used to power the natural resources industry .34 To view the 2022 Wood Mackenzie independent audit statement, click here . The following is intended to address the potential impacts through 2050 to our proved reserves, resources, evaluation of asset impairments, and other measures, considering the discussed scenarios’ ranges of oil and natural gas demand .35 In assessing various aspects of resiliency, we believe taking a portfolio approach is the most appropriate way for ExxonMobil to provide transparency in our analysis of the potential impacts of any energy transition scenario, including the IEA NZE . Additionally, as an integrated company with assets around the world, we have seen that economic events and trends may have a negative effect on one asset and an offsetting positive effect on others, with a minimal net effect on the full portfolio . When individual subsurface and energy system assets are analyzed in isolation from the full portfolio, the analysis is vulnerable to misinterpretation of the interplay among assets in the market and the optionality that assets may have in a specific region in the energy transition . This may provide a misleading picture of our resiliency and enterprise value . While one group of assets may perform below expectations for a period of time, other assets may perform above expectations – such is the nature of this cyclical industry . Numerous examples have occurred over time, with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine providing a very recent example of the value of our diversified portfolio . While we experienced a loss of value from the expropriation of our Russian assets, the international sanctions contributed to a rise in global commodity prices, increasing the value of many of our other Upstream assets . We believe an analysis that fails to account for these details could both misrepresent the value of the portfolio and miss important macro factors such as energy reliability and security . We do not believe this approach provides meaningful disclosure to investors . We believe the energy transition is likely to unfold in different ways and at an uncertain pace with variation by region . The individual assets in our portfolio respond differently to economic signals, technology evolution, commodity prices, regional differences, government policies, and many other variables . Even where global benchmark prices are given, local prices, including differentials, are influenced by external factors that cannot be reliably predicted . Third-party scenarios offer some assumptions related to these variables; however, determining impacts by individual asset requires additional forecasts, projections, and cost estimates that cannot be reasonably predicted . Publicly providing individual asset modeling for remote scenarios risks conveying a false level of precision . To further support our portfolio approach, we believe using the IEA NZE in a hypothetical individual asset impairment analysis is inconsistent with the principles outlined under U .S . GAAP, which specifies that impairment analyses should be based on assumptions that are “reasonable in relation to” our planning basis . As described beginning on Page 23, our planning basis is our Outlook for Energy, which is a projection of supply and demand through 2050 . The assumptions in the IEA NZE significantly vary from our Outlook, and the IEA has acknowledged that its NZE is an extremely aggressive scenario, and that society is not currently on this pathway . Providing detailed asset-specific public disclosure regarding remaining useful lives, retirement costs, and potential proved reserves changes in an IEA NZE scenario could imply a higher degree of certainty or accuracy than exists . In addition, as the energy transition progresses, disclosing this type of detailed asset-level information could provide a competitively sensitive roadmap of how we might make adjustments in our portfolio . For these reasons, we do not provide hypothetical, individual asset accounting analysis using the IEA NZE . We believe looking at the evolution of our portfolio operating cash flows, which reflect how investment decisions change under the IEA NZE, provides a better demonstration of our resiliency and enterprise value with less potential to confuse our stakeholders . Proved reserves Proved reserves are assessed each year and reported in our annual report on Form 10-K in accordance with rules of the U .S . Securities and Exchange Commission . Based on 2021 production schedules, a substantial majority of our year-end 2021 proved reserves are expected to have been produced by 2050 . For the remaining year-end 2021 proved reserves that are projected to be produced beyond 2050, the reserves are generally associated with assets where the majority of development costs are incurred before 2050 . While these proved reserves may be subject to more stringent climate-related policies in the future, technology advancements and targeted investments could mitigate production-related greenhouse gas emissions and associated costs . In addition, these mature assets generally have a lower risk profile given the experience and technical knowledge accumulated over many decades of production . Resources We maintain a large and diverse portfolio of undeveloped resources that provide flexibility to develop new supplies to meet future demand . We work to enhance the quality of this resource base through successful exploration, application of new technology, acquisitions, divestments, and ongoing development planning and appraisal activities . The underlying economics of commercializing resources depend on a number of factors that are assessed annually . Decisions can range from developing the resource (which eventually moves to proved reserves), monetizing the resource by selling it to others, or exiting the resource . All investments are tested over a wide range of commodity price assumptions and market conditions . In scenarios like the IEA NZE, higher-cost assets could become disadvantaged without active portfolio management . In light of the multiple and dynamic factors that influence governments’ diverse approaches to regulating resources and industry’s decisions to commercialize undeveloped resources, it is not possible to identify which specific assets will ultimately be developed . For example, regional policies that constrain supply in one area could enhance returns in others . Alternatively, geopolitical conflict affecting resources in one region could advantage resources in another, making diverse long-lived assets a hedge against instability . Ultimately, we are confident in our ability to apply high-impact technologies to position our portfolio to compete successfully in a broad range of scenarios . Global oil supply estimates Global gas supply estimates (million oil-equivalent barrels per day) (billion cubic feet per day) IEA STEPS demand ExxonMobil Outlook ExxonMobil Outlook IEA STEPS demand Average demand based on Average demand based on IPCC Lower 2°C scenarios IPCC Lower 2°C scenarios 2050 supply 2050 supplygap gap IEA NZE demandIEA NZE demand Decline without investment Decline without investment  natural gas price of $4 .27 per million British thermal units (Prices in 2020 U .S . dollars) .  Significant investment still needed under Lower 2°C and IEA NZE scenarios In the IPCC Lower 2°C scenarios, average global oil demand is projected to decline from approximately 90 million barrels per day in 2021 to about 65 million in 2050 . The IEA NZE scenario projects about 24 million barrels per day of demand in 2050 . Without future investment, world oil production would be expected to drop to about 11 million barrels per day due to natural field decline . In the IEA NZE scenario, additional investment of approximately $11 trillion through 2050 will be required in oil and natural gas to meet the world’s energy demand .36 New discoveries will be needed even under IEA NZE to support energy security and reliable supply in the face of geopolitical uncertainty .  IEA NZE 2050 scenario37 Henry Hub natural gas (2022$/million British thermal units) Third party projections Third party projections IEA NZE by 2050 Source: ExxonMobil analysis, IEA NZE by 2050 (2021), Third party projections: FACTS Global Energy Group, IHS Markit, Wood Mackenzie, Rystad Energy, S&P Global Commodity Insights The company's projections for prices are proprietary . The Outlook for Energy forms the basis of our business planning and is used for commercial decisions and economic evaluations . Our near-term prices are informed by market conditions . For mid- to longer-term, our prices are in the range of third-party projections published by reputable organizations with significant industry expertise .   Signposts for the evolving energy transition Using our own experts and third-party sources, we monitor a variety of signposts that may indicate a potential shift in the energy transition . For example, the regional pace of the transition could be influenced by the cost of new technologies compared to existing or alternative energy sources . Changes in relative cost may accelerate shifts in the global energy mix . Our signposts include: • Increasing electrification of energy systems and technology developments that reduce costs and increase the reliability and capacity of energy storage . • Development of scalable alternative energy technologies such as advanced biofuels, leading to displacement of gasoline and distillate in the fuels market . • Advances in carbon capture and storage technology to lower cost and enable lower-emission hydrogen production . • New, more ambitious NDCs, along with broad implementation of significant policies and regulatory initiatives, such as carbon pricing . These charts show the outcome of the IEA Stated Policies Scenario by 2050 and highlight the progress made from 2010 to 2020 . The Outlook for Energy, IPCC Lower 2°C average, and IEA NZE scenario markers are provided for comparison . CO. prices38 $/metric ton CO. in 2022$ Real See Page 41 for ExxonMobil's GHG emissions pricing Share of electricity in transportation % electricity Share of low-carbon power generation % low-carbon power Source: ExxonMobil 2022 Outlook for Energy, IEA World Energy Outlook 2021, IPCC Sixth Assessment Report, The World Bank, 2021, State and Trends of Carbon Pricing 2021 (May), World Bank, Washington, DC, ExxonMobil analysis . Greenhouse gas emissions pricing where ExxonMobil operates or invests The greenhouse gas pricing we use for planning falls within or exceeds ranges provided by the third parties referenced below . Section 8  |  Signposts for the evolving energy transition Our Outlook for Energy seeks to identify potential impacts of climate-related policies by using various assumptions and tools, including application of a proxy cost of carbon, to estimate potential impacts on global energy demand . Separately, we use proprietary greenhouse gas pricing where we operate and invest . Where policy provides greenhouse gas pricing, we align with and apply such greenhouse gas pricing to evaluate investment opportunities and estimate operating cost, where appropriate, for specific greenhouse gas emissions sources . Where greenhouse gas pricing policy currently does not exist, we assume a price informed by the Outlook for Energy proxy cost of carbon . International accords and underlying regional and national regulations covering greenhouse gas emissions continue to evolve with uncertain timing, outcome,  and potential business impact . $/metric ton CO. in 2022$ real 40ExxonMobil GHG IEA WEO STEPS  emissions prices CO. prices World Bank39 Carbon prices 2022-2050 2030 2050 Advanced economies 4-99 4-150 <73 <102 Emerging economies 1-13 1-100 <34 <62 Ranges provided for jurisdictions where ExxonMobil operates or invests . ExxonMobil’s GHG emissions pricing for 2022-2030 is based on currently stated existing or anticipated policies; pricing for 2030-2050 reflects presumed regional policies for both advanced and emerging economies . ExxonMobil’s GHG emissions pricing is in 2022 USD and has not been adjusted for future inflation . For 2022 and 2023, we have not applied GHG emission prices to our operations or investments in countries where there is no existing GHG emission price . We do apply anticipated prices within the range identified in the table in those countries beginning in 2024 .  ExxonMobil’s GHG emissions prices include CO. and other GHGs (e.g., methane), where appropriate.  • Energy efficiency: Improvement in energy use per capita is a key trend across these scenarios . In recent history, the world has seen an increase in energy use per capita as living conditions in the developing world have improved, more than offsetting efficiency trends in the developed world . This trend would need to reverse . • Solar and wind power: Solar capacity installed each year would have to increase by 4-5 times the rate of the past five years . Wind turbines would have to be built at 2-4 times the recent rate . • Carbon capture and storage: There are currently about 40 million metric tons per year of carbon capture and storage facilities in operation around the world .47 Over the next decade, 1 .5-3 times the existing carbon capture and storage capacity would have to be added every year . • Nuclear: Capacity would have to be added at around three times the recent rate . • Biofuels: Growth would need to continue for an entire decade and require commensurate growth in logistics . Whereas the IPCC Lower 2°C would require a growth slightly less than the average of the past five years, the IEA NZE would require 3 .5 times that growth in the next decade . • Hydrogen: Growth would have to exceed 9% per year in the IEA NZE scenario, more than doubling current use in one decade . Reducing portfolio life-cycle emissions and emissions intensity48 Two of the more common methods for estimating society’s greenhouse gas emissions are the GHG Protocol and the life-cycle approach (LCA) . Each method has value, and to better understand the degree to which a company is helping reduce global emissions, we see LCA as a more useful alternative to the GHG Protocol . Below is a brief overview of each approach and the reasons we view LCA as preferable . GHG Protocol The GHG Protocol divides emissions into three categories or “scopes .” Scope 1 emissions are the direct result of an organization’s operations, and Scope 2 emissions come from the power generated by others that is used to run the operations . For instance, Scope 1 would cover the direct emissions from a factory in which a product is made, and Scope 2 would cover the emissions from the electricity provider that powered that factory . These are fairly straightforward to calculate and offer reasonably good insights into that company’s carbon emissions . We have reported our Scope 1 and 2 emissions for more than a decade . Scope 3, however, is more difficult to determine because it attempts to understand the full range of indirect emissions from sources not owned or controlled by the manufacturer . For instance, the manufacturer is required under Scope 3 to estimate the carbon emitted by the people or businesses using its product . In addition, Scope 3 often results in double counting of emissions because the same emissions are treated as Scope 3 for the factory making the product and Scope 1 for the company using that same product . The assumptions both parties would have to make about each other’s activities make Scope 3 overly complicated and likely inaccurate . The GHG Protocol is a valuable tool to track progress on society's collective efforts to reduce total emissions . It’s insufficient for fully assessing an individual company’s progress in helping reduce emissions while producing essential goods . This is because the only reasonable way to fully assess a company’s progress is to understand the amount of carbon it emits relative to the products it produces and the alternatives to those products .49 This is known as life-cycle carbon “intensity,” and that insight is required to engage in a reasonable comparison between companies or product alternatives, regardless of a company’s relative size or what products it produces . The GHG Protocol is an activity-based analysis and provides limited insight for a company like ours into how it might substantially lower its emissions, short of shrinking, discontinuing operations, or outright divesting operations . A company that reduces production will see its GHG Protocol-calculated emissions decrease, but activity does not stop because society’s needs have not changed . As a result, if another company fills the production void, it may do so in ways that are less efficient and actually increase carbon emissions in the energy sector . If activity completely stops, society’s needs may go unfulfilled, leading to shortages with resulting spikes in price . The GHG Protocol calculation was not designed to consider these important nuances and, as a result, will reward an individual company’s behavior by showing a reduction in a company’s greenhouse gas levels even when society‘s emissions remain constant or, perhaps, rise . Life-cycle approach LCA, on the other hand, offers advantages not present in GHG Protocol calculations . First, that same manufacturer may be engaged in an effort to remove carbon through the application of so-called “negative emissions .” Direct air capture is an example of these negative emissions, because it removes carbon directly from the atmosphere and stores the carbon deep underground where it can have no adverse effect on the climate .50 These technologies, among others, offer an increasingly important method for companies to reduce emissions and are essential, in the view of experts, if we are to arrive as a society at net zero in the future . For this reason it is notable that LCA allows for consideration of negative emissions when calculating a company’s carbon footprint . This is the case because it is designed to reflect a “net” emissions number . The GHG Protocol calculation, on the other hand, does not take negative emissions into account and only provides “gross” emissions estimates . If a company were to rely only on a GHG Protocol analysis, this fact might adversely affect its willingness to invest in environmentally critical technologies like direct air capture .  and processing Carbon Biofeed andElectrification capture recycled feed and storagPotential decarbonization actions Negative emissions technologies along a value chain’s life cycle  Direct air Nature-based capture solutions e  coal, would be penalized for meeting society’s energy needs in a way that is better than the alternative . By contrast, LCA allows for a comparison of the relative emissions efficiency of different forms of energy by providing a view of life-cycle "intensity" of carbon emissions associated with meeting a societal need . As mentioned above, understanding life-cycle "intensity" normalizes for company size and the products it makes . It also allows for a more accurate, net emissions estimate . In our real-world example, natural gas emits up to 60% lower greenhouse gases and produces significantly fewer air pollutants than coal for power generation . LCA provides the basis for this comparison . The GHG Protocol does not . Finally, LCA offers a view of the emissions intensity of all aspects of a company’s value chain . This allows for like-for-like comparisons within and across industries to understand who is doing a better job of reducing  Second, one of the critical questions in considering  fewer carbon emissions than coal . However, under  the best way to meet society’s needs for energy is  the GHG Protocol, the provider of natural gas would  greenhouse gas emissions while meeting society’s  the relative carbon burden associated with different  see their emissions calculations increase if they were  needs for various products . In this way,  energy products . For instance, both natural gas and  producing more natural gas to replace coal as a source  one can ignore the size of a particular company  coal are used to generate electricity and power heavy  of energy . In other words, the natural gas provider,  and look only at how carbon-efficient it is . For  industry, but natural gas combustion produces far  though materially benefiting the climate relative to  instance, the GHG Protocol would tell you only  that ExxonMobil is a very large producer of energy and products, with a corresponding emissions footprint . It would not, however, give you any insight into how carbon-efficient it is when compared to other, smaller companies in the same businesses . For these reasons, we do not set Scope 3 targets . We see the GHG Protocol as a useful tool for understanding progress in reducing total emissions, but it is not suited to understanding and comparing a company’s efforts to reduce emissions associated with the services and products it provides in meeting society’s needs . To meet a net-zero goal, it is essential that companies fully understand their net emissions and have a means of comparing themselves against others in their industry . Most importantly, the approach needs to equip and incentivize companies to make investments that will reduce their emissions – not simply encourage companies to back away from meeting society’s needs and pass portions of their carbon footprint to someone else . Utilizing an LCA approach and applying it to ExxonMobil’s business plans through 2030, we expect a 6% reduction in full life-cycle emissions intensity, the result of which is expected to be an estimated 18% reduction in full life-cycle absolute emissions . These are in comparison to 2016 levels .51 LCA recognizes the benefits of CCS, hydrogen, and biofuels For example, under a life-cycle approach, biofuels, which are an alternative to transportation fuels made from crude oil, have a significantly lower overall carbon intensity . This is because when the biomass that is used to make the biofuel is grown, it removes carbon from the atmosphere, which makes the net carbon footprint of the biofuel lower than conventional fuels . Scope 3 under the GHG Protocol methodology does not account for or reflect these negative emission aspects of a company’s biofuel feedstock production . It treats the ultimate biofuel no differently than fossil fuels, providing companies with no credit for, or incentive to, produce these lower greenhouse gas emission products . Potential GHG benefits of ExxonMobil products MTA of GHG emissions avoided if all of ExxonMobil’s projected 2030 LNG supply to the market 120 substitutes unabated coal in power generation52 25 MTA of GHG emissions avoided if all of ExxonMobil’s projected 2030 renewable fuel production displaces conventional fuel refined from crude oil53 13 MTA of life-cycle GHG emissions avoided if all of ExxonMobil’s projected 2030 volumes into U.S. plastic packaging displaces alternatives54 4 MTA of GHG emissions avoided if all of ExxonMobil Baytown’s expected 2030 blue hydrogen production displaces natural gas use in industrial applications55 ExxonMobil's enterprise risk framework considers climate-related risks Our Outlook for Energy is a core element of our enterprise risk framework, which provides a structured, comprehensive approach to identify, prioritize and manage risks across the company . Our framework is designed to drive consistency across risk type and monitor key risks . The framework includes five elements: 1 .   A way to organize and aggregate risks 2 .   Robust risk identification practices 3 .   A prioritization method 4 .   An inventory of systems and processes to manage risk 5 .   Risk governance For more details on the risks we consider and manage, refer to Item 1A . Risk Factors in the 10-K . Section 10 |  Our risk management approach  Examples of potential risks that could be impacted by Risk type climate change, energy transition or extreme weather Supply/demand, disruptive technology, geopolitical, 1 Strategic government changes and capital allocation Industry reputation, corporate reputation 2 Reputational Price volatility, foreign exchange fluctuations, 3 Financial customers’ credit risk, insurance Geological risk, project risk, product quality and 4 Operational brand, talent, supplier, operations disruption 5 Safety, Security, Process safety, well control events, environmental incidents Health & Environment 6 Compliance & Litigation Litigation risks, regulatory compliance  Our approach to risk governance is multilayered and Management Committee and the Board and its includes clearly defined roles and responsibilities for committees are a key part of risk governance . Our managing each type of risk . It includes a definition of Management Committee consists of our Chief the responsibilities of risk owners, functional experts Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, and and independent verifiers . Each risk type is managed our two Senior Vice Presidents, who are responsible and supported by functional organizations that are for the Upstream and Product Solutions businesses, responsible for specifying corporate requirements as well as ExxonMobil Technology and Engineering, and processes . Each of these processes includes and Global Projects . The President of our Low the critical elements of leadership, people, risk Carbon Solutions business reports directly to the identification and management, and continuous Chief Executive Officer . improvement . Oversight responsibilities by the  Protection of assets, the community, and the environment We have extensive experience operating in a wide range of challenging physical environments around the world . Effective risk management requires the ongoing assessment and mitigation of potential physical impacts to our people, our assets, the community, and the environments in which we operate . Before pursuing a new development, we use data and advanced computer modeling to assess the full range of potential environmental, socioeconomic and health risks associated with potential construction and operations . We also consult with communities through public meetings and other outreach, and we work with regulators to share information and seek necessary approvals . This process gives us a comprehensive understanding of possible impacts, which we use to implement measures to avoid, reduce, or remedy environmental, socioeconomic, and health risks or impacts . When considering physical environmental risks, we evaluate the type and location of facilities and investments . As an example, changes in patterns of waves, wind, or ice floes can affect offshore facilities . Onshore facilities could be vulnerable to sea level rise, changes in storm surge, flooding, changes in wind and seismic activity, or geo-technical considerations . We conduct environmental assessments before building and operating facilities to ensure that protective measures and procedures are in place . 