DEVELOPING LONG-TERM CAPACITY IN SAKHALIN contractor-development workshop for Russian-owned-and-operated businesses and companies interested in becoming contractors for the project. A total of 83 companies registered for the workshop, 95 percent of which were locally based. They represented a wide range of industries, including construction, transportation, catering, electrical, medical and other oil- and gas-oriented businesses. Providing Sakhalin’s indigenous residents with a voice in the project has been a primary goal of ENL. Local reindeer herders were hired to assist environmental scientists and rendered invaluable cooperative efforts in the development of the Odoptu field. In 2009, they were also trained and certified as oil spill responders. As local hunters and fishermen, they understand the coastal environment and can support the Sakhalin-1 oil spill response team in an emergency. Approximately 20 indigenous residents are trained in Arctic spill response. Building Infrastructure In addition to government revenues that will flow into infrastructure, the project is contributing directly to infrastructure enhancements, including improved roads, bridges, airport and seaport facilities and public medical facilities. Since 2001, ENL and the Sakhalin-1 Consortium have provided more than $190 million for community infrastructure projects. New bridges and improved roads in North Sakhalin make the six-hour trip from Nogliki settlement to Okha city safer and faster. Advanced medical equipment provided to hospitals ensures timely emergency response for Sakhalin-1 personnel and local communities. Supporting Communities ExxonMobil also supports education, health and cultural programs in the Sakhalin region. In 2012, ENL and the Sakhalin-1 Consortium contributed $5 million to the Sakhalin Technical Oil and Gas Institute to support students preparing for careers in the oil and gas industry. The donation helped fund the purchase of a wide range of laboratory equipment and enabled Sakhalin State University to open an oil-and-gas-formations physics lab and a drilling-well-training simulation center. ENL provides medical equipment to local clinics and hospitals, including modern ultrasonic examination and diagnostic equipment. To date, ENL has contributed more than $11 million to community programs that support education, infrastructure, health care, civic organizations and the arts. $11million contributed to community programs To encourage the development of small- and medium-sized local businesses, ENL and Sakhalin-1 Consortium partners support a microcredit program focused on microfinance loans and business training. More than $700,000 was contributed for microfinance loan funding that created or sustained more than 1,000 local jobs and 200 businesses on Sakhalin Island and in the Ulchi District of Khabarovsk Krai. Between 2010 and 2012, ENL continued providing support and funding training for local business people. Development of the Odoptu field at ExxonMobil s Sakhalin 1 project. The produced oil and gas is piped and processed at the main facility in Chayvo, and then exported or used domestically. Up Close: Supporting Energy Infrastructure Improvements in Sakhalin ExxonMobil’s Sakhalin-1 project has helped deliver critical energy supplies to many parts of Eastern Siberia and Russia’s Far East, areas that previously lacked access to stable energy sources. After the Russian government started the Far East Gasification Program to help bring infrastructure to these remote areas, ENL entered into the first-ever production-sharing agreement with domestic gas suppliers in 2005. Since then, Sakhalin-1 has delivered more than 10 billion cubic meters of natural gas to Far East domestic customers. As a result, many small- and medium-sized businesses, as well as public utility companies that supply heat and electric power to residents, use a more environmentally friendly energy source. HUMAN RIGHTS AND MANAGING COMMUNITY IMPACTS Children benefiting from a community-based clean water program launched in Indonesia. Through effective communication and consultation, ExxonMobil seeks to establish and maintain community relationships while actively promoting respect for human rights. Highlighting a Decade of Performance Our priorities since 2002 Demonstrate our respect for human rights with a systematic approach to managing issues at our projects and operations Joined the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and increased the number of private security contracts with human rights language from 50 percent in 2008 to 99 percent in 2012 Engaged in the development of the United Nations Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Trained individuals in human rights from 18 affiliates in 17 countries where ExxonMobil has operations Engage with indigenous groups near our operations to ensure respect for local cultures and customs Implemented feedback submitted by indigenous populations near our operations in Cameroon, Canada, Papua New Guinea, Russia and the United States Assist the global effort to end deaths from malaria Invested $106.6 million toward the fight against malaria since 2002, reaching more than 83 million people in 17 countries Increase the number of students pursuing degrees in math and science Became a founding sponsor of the National Math and Science Initiative, committing $125 million since its inception in 2007 Helped train more than 72,000 teachers through our global education programs Improve women’s economic participation across the developing world Invested $60 million toward promoting economic opportunities for 20,000 women in 85 countries over the past seven years Implement Best Practices in External Affairs (BPEA) as a part of the Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) Our continued responsibilities Identify and manage socioeconomic conditions across our global operations Implement the United Nations Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Expand our human rights training to more employees Identify partnership opportunities with organizations that focus on specific strategic community investment areas at the country level Ongoing Completed HUMAN RIGHTS AND MANAGING COMMUNITY IMPACTS ExxonMobil strives to have a positive impact on the communities where we operate. Stakeholder engagement demonstrates our fundamental respect for human rights and our belief that strong, informed communities lead to a stable business environment. Community Impacts and Relationships Through effective communication and consultation, ExxonMobil seeks to establish and maintain community relationships while actively promoting respect for human rights. We address socioeconomic issues by adhering to corporate policies and expectations (see page 47), complying with host-country regulatory requirements, applying universally recognized principles, engaging with external groups (see page 7) and building local economic capacity (see page 51). In 2012, we approved our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard for use across the Upstream companies. The Standard provides a set of best management practices and minimum expectations when managing the socioeconomic considerations throughout the Upstream life cycle. Implementing the Standard helps us identify considerations and risks early. We then develop and implement appropriate avoidance measures. We believe a consistent approach helps our employees, contractors and partners effectively manage socioeconomic issues and maintain our global license to operate. In 2012, ExxonMobil established an Upstream Socioeconomic Management Functional Advisory Team, comprised  of various functional and Upstream company representatives. This team meets quarterly to review and discuss strategy, alignment and direction regarding socioeconomic considerations. We also launched a system to capture lessons learned from any incidents with socioeconomic causes and effects. When incidents happen, it will be beneficial for these causes and effects to be identified to help improve how we manage socioeconomic impacts. Identifying Socioeconomic Aspects At ExxonMobil, risk management shapes our business and investment decisions. This includes evaluating and managing the risks and opportunities related to social, health, environmental, economic and cultural matters. When starting major Upstream projects, we conduct an Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) to identify key risks that we might encounter throughout the asset life cycle and develop strategies to manage or mitigate these risks appropriately. A key aspect of conducting an ESHIA involves engaging directly with affected communities, relevant governmental agencies, international organizations and local non-governmental organizations as appropriate to solicit feedback on a project and gain information For the past decade, ExxonMobil has actively participated in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Oil and gas projects can affect individuals, communities and the environment. Building relationships with community members and providing open communication channels to local groups are important components of our stakeholder engagement approach. that can be used to improve the project or its execution. As part of the process, stakeholders are given the opportunity to review and comment on ESHIA drafts. Since 2007, ExxonMobil has undertaken or participated in nearly 110 ESHIAs for projects and activities around the world, ranging from single-well exploration drilling programs to new technology evaluation pilots to large development mega-projects. Conducting ESHIAs is integral to successful project implementation and developing long-term, positive relationships in the communities where we operate. Respecting Human Rights Our approach to human rights is consistent with the policy framework outlined in the 2008 report of John Ruggie, the United Nations Special Representative on Business and Human Rights. That framework recognizes the distinctly different roles of government and business with regard to human rights — the government’s duty to protect human rights and corporations' responsibility to respect them. The United Nations Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights was released in 2011 to provide further guidance on implementing the “protect, respect, remedy” framework. These Guiding Principles emphasize operational due diligence: corporations should be aware of potential adverse impacts and implement prevention measures. In 2012, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) published revised Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability to reflect the Guiding Principles. In 2012, the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) continued efforts to coordinate an industry position on the Guiding Principles, with a focus on industry due diligence. ExxonMobil recognizes the importance of successful voluntary initiatives and supports IPIECA’s effort to address the expectations of the Guiding Principles for the oil and gas industry proactively. Providing human rights training Our human rights awareness training program is based on ExxonMobil guidelines, practices and priorities. Training focuses primarily on employee awareness, company policies and approaches, company resources and our commitment to respect human rights. Each session also includes information on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the requirements of our Framework on Security and Human Rights and implementing the Framework in a given country. We pursue a risk-based approach to providing human rights training in our highest-priority operating areas. It is ExxonMobil’s intent to facilitate the training of employees working on projects globally and to broaden the scope of those designated for training. In 2012, we coordinated training for approximately 50 site-based security personnel in Nigeria, Chad and Sakhalin, and more than 100 employees at our annual conference for socioeconomic professionals. We also continued to evaluate methodologies to reach additional personnel and expand the content of this training. Our plans include development of computer-based modules to provide greater access to security and human rights training. We will also evaluate combining this training with reviews of other business practice standards. Policies and labor practices Our commitment to human rights extends to our workforce and is supported by our Standards of Business Conduct and Statement on Labor and the Workplace, which is consistent with the spirit and intent of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, specifically the elimination of child labor, forced labor and workplace discrimination. Employees are required to comply with all employment policies and practices. We seek business partners that observe similar standards. Our contract language requires adherence to all national laws and regulations. We prescreen suppliers and mandate compliance with all applicable laws, which include those regarding business practices and human rights. Formal requests for quotations typically include clauses relating to the prohibition of forced or child labor and the payment of wages in accordance with all local laws. Addressing Security Concerns Security and respect for human rights can and should be compatible. ExxonMobil is committed to ensuring the security of company personnel and operations in a manner that respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. Framework on Security and Human Rights For the past decade, ExxonMobil has actively participated in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, a forum that provides for discussion and information sharing among extractive industry companies, governments and non-governmental organizations. These Voluntary Principles affirm the constructive role that businesses can play in supporting and advancing human rights and security. In 2012, IPIECA completed an Implementation Guidance Tool for introducing these Principles in countries that are not members of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. ExxonMobil personnel attended implementation workshops in Indonesia and Peru. Most countries with ExxonMobil operations rely on the use of unarmed private security providers. However, in some instances, host governments provide security personnel. In these cases, the expectation to uphold human rights remains the same. ExxonMobil’s Statement and Framework on Security and Human Rights helps implement the Voluntary Principles. The Statement and Framework includes guidance on working with host government security personnel, instituting memoranda of understanding Up Close: Stakeholder Consultation in Chad and Cameroon Since the Chad/Cameroon pipeline project began in 2002, ExxonMobil has held thousands of public consultation sessions. In 2012, engagements focused on the 242 villages near the pipeline. With increasing development activity in the countries, active and early communication with villagers is a priority. During these meetings, villagers received relevant information about the pipeline right of way, including how to identify hazards, safe farming practices and key points of contact. Project staff also took the opportunity to provide villagers with health messages about cholera, currently a serious concern in Chad and Cameroon. regarding host government-assigned security personnel, developing approaches for interacting with private security providers, and reporting and establishing recordkeeping templates. Approximately 99 percent of our private security personnel contracts include requirements to address human rights concerns. Establishing strong partnerships with the local community is the foundation of the Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project’s security strategy. We have faced some challenges and delays from work stoppages due to community disruptions and land access issues. We address these challenges through the implementation of our Security Plan and work done by our land and community affairs team to engage with communities directly. Consistent with expectations set out in a Memorandum of Understanding between the Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary and Esso Highlands Limited, Papua New Guinea government security personnel are to receive appropriate training, including human rights awareness training. We continue to encourage assigned government security personnel to provide human rights awareness training to personnel supporting community policing initiatives near project areas. Project personnel also work with project contractors to ensure workers have the appropriate training, tools and support to perform their duties safely and effectively. Consultation with Stakeholders We aim to help develop human, social and economic capacity in a way that benefits people, communities and our business. Achieving this goal requires collaborative partnerships and active consultation with a range of stakeholders. Our Best Practices in External Affairs (BPEA) governs our community awareness programs, government relations and national content development. The BPEA process helps us identify the specific needs, expectations and interests of host communities and align these needs with our community investment efforts. Through early external stakeholder engagement, we are able to identify community concerns and implement mitigation measures during the project planning phase. By attempting to address these issues up-front, we are able to minimize community concerns throughout the life of the project. Ensuring mutual understanding, trust and respect in our stakeholder relationships means that interested parties are represented as project agreements are established. Once a project starts, we provide local groups and individuals with a communication channel to voice and resolve concerns related to a development project without fear of retribution. Our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard includes provisions for establishing a systematic and transparent grievance process. For example, at our Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project, we apply an approach consistent with IFC Performance Standards to identify and manage community grievances. The project provides numerous mechanisms for receiving grievances from members of the community, such as the use of grievance cards by the project team when they are interacting with communities. The public can also submit grievances in writing, in person or over the telephone. As may be expected with a project of this scale and complexity, and in a country with customary land rights, many community concerns relate to compensation for land access. Additionally, community members raised concerns about environment-and economic-related issues. We review all grievances and capture them in a centralized database that coordinates and manages grievances through to their closure. Once a grievance is closed, the project team evaluates the effectiveness of the resolution. The team also conducts weekly reviews of the grievance process looking for trends, lessons learned and opportunities for improvement. As activities continue in Papua New Guinea, the project team has been engaging with communities to build relationships and trust to ensure all grievances are addressed both appropriately and in a timely manner. Indigenous peoples ExxonMobil is committed to engaging with indigenous communities in a manner that is respectful of their cultures and customs. Through open consultation, we work to understand and incorporate indigenous perspectives into project planning, design, execution and ongoing operations. Our approach is consistent with the principles of the ILO Convention 169 Concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries, the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability and the World Bank Operational Policy and Bank Procedure on Indigenous Peoples. Our projects and operations in Alaska, Cameroon, Canada, Papua New Guinea and Sakhalin Island all involve working in communities of indigenous peoples. Often, the first consultation with any group of indigenous people is to determine how they prefer to be engaged. Each community establishes its own preference for how often members meet with us, for how long and whom the community chooses to represent its wishes. At Kearl in Alberta, Canada, Imperial Oil consulted with First Nations’ Industry Relations Corporations to develop a Reclamation Planning Group. This group, which seeks First Nations’ input on the Kearl Closure and Reclamation Plan, has improved our understanding of the Aboriginal cultural and historical connection to the land and has helped formulate a more holistic reclamation approach that now features activities, such as the selection of native plants like beaked hazelnut and muskeg tea, for reclaimed areas. We also continue to assess a recommendation to create islands in a man-made lake to help moose protect their calves. This unique initiative is not only improving relationships and enhancing the company’s reputation, but is facilitating local stakeholder input at the start of the project. Similarly, in Kaktovik, Alaska, we regularly engage with the 300 residents of this local indigenous community regarding the operations of our North Slope Point Thomson Project. The Kaktovik-Point Thomson Working Group, comprising leadership from Kaktovik and ExxonMobil, meets several times a year. We also conduct community meetings open to all residents twice a year to Stakeholder Engagement: Socially Responsible Investors We were asked: Does ExxonMobil’s approach to engagement with indigenous people apply to Imperial Oil operations and, if so, how? In particular, how are the provisions of international standards and conventions reflected in the policies that govern Imperial Oil operations and what programs are in place to implement them? — Email from a socially responsible investor Our response: Imperial’s approach is consistent with the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, including free, prior and informed consent in the context of Canadian law. While the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2007, Canada did not support the declaration until 2010. Canada, in its endorsement, emphasized that it views the United Nations Declaration as “a non-legally binding aspirational document which speaks to the individual and collective rights of indigenous peoples,” and emphasizes that the Declaration is a “non-legally binding document that does not reflect customary international law nor change Canadian laws.” Based on Supreme Court of Canada rulings, Aboriginal people do not have a veto over development projects. The IFC Performance Standards require companies to undertake free, prior and informed consent under certain circumstances; for example, in cases of resettlement or significant impacts on cultural heritage sites. Imperial’s projects do not result in resettlement; although at times, we must work with registered trapline owners to move cabins and compensate for loss of fur. There is an established protocol and formula for completing this in western Canada, including consent from the trappers. ExxonMobil complies with legal requirements in every country where we operate. The global functional model means that ExxonMobil processes and good practices are shared with each affiliate and adopted by its functions, as appropriate. Affiliates will also conduct business in a way that is respectful of local customs and traditions and that establishes strong community partnerships to secure a local social license to operate. provide project updates. In 2012, the project operations have ceased. Wherever we work hired a Kaktovik resident as the project’s liaison with indigenous peoples, we support both local to enhance communications during project employment initiatives and cultural heritage construction and to disseminate information on programs through national content and strategic local hire opportunities. community investments, respectively. Respecting indigenous heritage In Alaska, our North Slope Point Thomson Project We are sensitive to local community concerns Master Plan defines specific development about balancing their cultural heritage with the expectations. This past year, ExxonMobil need for economic development, even after our supported a project aimed at connecting Kaktovik Inupiat elders with local youth, using aerial imagery and interviews to document traditional knowledge. This project will help young people understand the stories, values and social relations that exist in North Slope coastal locations and their contribution to the survival, preservation and evolution of Inupiat culture. At the same time, it will help connect generations and facilitate the sharing of important knowledge within and between communities. In Papua New Guinea, we work to preserve significant cultural heritage located in the project impact area and implement measures that manage known cultural heritage resources. To this end, we follow a Cultural Heritage Management Plan for our project activities and implement a cultural heritage tracking system, which collates and manages data collected since 2005. Any sites identified with cultural heritage components are either subject to salvage activities or protection from disturbance by construction activities. Throughout Papua New Guinea, caves, ponds, lakes and trees all have deep cultural heritage meanings that have been passed down for generations. We work closely with clan and tribal leaders to identify, preserve and protect sacred cultural heritage sites. For example, we engaged with the Wapiako Takima clan to protect a local spirit lake in the Komo region. Training our construction and field contractor personnel is another way we manage potential cultural heritage impacts. For example, our onshore pipeline contractor trained brush-clearing crews on how to recognize areas of cultural significance to landowners. Land use and resettlement We respect property rights in the countries where we operate, including those of traditional land users. The IFC-revised Performance Standards, effective in 2012, require clients to obtain the free, prior and informed consent of indigenous peoples before initiating development activities on traditional lands. Our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard includes expectations for securing free, prior and informed consultation. We strive to act consistently within the parameters of free, prior and informed consent by working collaboratively and transparently with local communities, including indigenous peoples, to foster ongoing support for our activities. We minimize involuntary resettlement through project design; when resettlement is unavoidable, we seek to ensure appropriate restoration of the livelihoods of displaced persons. In all cases when some resettlement is unavoidable, like at our Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project, we apply international good practices aligned with the IFC’s Performance Standards, in conjunction with applicable host-country regulatory requirements. When physical and economic displacement occurs, we develop and implement Resettlement Action Plans that include landowner consultation and surveying and mapping of housing structures, gardens and other assets. We identify locations based on project needs through a consultative process. The company holds awareness sessions and takes note of any general issues or concerns. If it is determined that the household does not want to move, or wants to move but may have some sensitivities related to moving, then ExxonMobil works to identify alternatives, or provide special assistance. There are a few cases where we have re-routed or chosen an alternative site as a result of resettlement-related sensitivities. As part of this process, we negotiate appropriate compensation with affected landowners or users in the presence of an independent advocacy professional. The resettled landowners or users then identify a new home and garden site. They receive assistance to re-establish a household and gardens at the new location, including the provision of rations until the household can re-establish its livelihood, as well as the introduction of improved agricultural techniques. We conduct livelihood restoration activities through the project’s Food and Agriculture Program and monitor and evaluate progress for two years against a pre-resettlement baseline. We also have an assessment team identify resettled individuals or groups who may be more affected by displacement than others. We closely monitor these individuals or groups and assign them priority resettlement assistance programs. ExxonMobil tracks resettled areas based on the number of Resettlement Action Plans in place. There are some areas that were not conceptualized at the beginning of construction of the Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project, such as quarries or access roads. We are identifying these sites as construction moves Up Close: Papua New Guinea’s Food and Agriculture Program In countries such as Papua New Guinea with traditional landownership tenures, a social license to operate is a critical part of our business. We gain license to operate through our relationships with local communities, which not only own the land but also reside within the area where we operate. We recognize that it is their livelihood environment as much as it is our business environment. The Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project’s Food and Agriculture Program provides assistance for displaced or impacted people. Helping families generate income and grow a nutritious food supply is the key objective. As many people in Papua New Guinea practice subsistence agriculture, the Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas project has helped many resettled families establish gardens through training, as well as providing agricultural tools, planting materials for important food staple crops, vegetables and fruit trees, and small livestock, such as poultry and pigs. Households also receive training in nutrition and hygiene, and learn how to bake products that are then sold in local markets. The benefits of this program have extended well beyond resettled households, with community members around the project area now also participating in some of the activities. into each area and developing Resettlement Action Plans. ExxonMobil has adjusted the number of sites accordingly. Thus far in Papua New Guinea, 27 locations have been identified where resettlement is deemed necessary. Strategic Community Investments ExxonMobil invests in long-term social challenges that directly impact our business. We make strategic community investments at both the corporate and country level, and each serves different needs. Our signature corporate programs focus on advancing economic opportunities for women, combatting malaria and other infectious diseases in the developing world and improving education. Through public-private partnerships and ongoing stakeholder engagement, we believe we can achieve these shared goals. Malaria Initiative Ending the spread of malaria requires an integrated approach, including prevention, education and treatment. Over the past several years, ExxonMobil has emerged as a corporate leader in the fight against malaria. Since 2002, our funding has supported the distribution of 13.1 million bed nets, nearly 1.8 million doses of anti-malarial drugs, 942,863 rapid diagnostic kits, and training for 249,904 health care workers. In total, we have reached more than 83 million people in 17 countries throughout Africa and Asia with an investment of $106.6 million. In 2012 alone, ExxonMobil provided $12.4 million to 20 organizations for 24 different projects, benefiting 16.7 million people in 10 countries. Women’s Economic Opportunity Initiative Investing in women’s economic participation provides long-term benefits to them, their families, their societies and their countries. In 2012, ExxonMobil invested more than $8 million toward promoting women’s economic opportunities. Through our partnerships, we have reached more than 20,000 women in 85 countries. Over the past seven years, we have invested more than $60 million in this global program. Math and Science Initiative Globally, a strong focus on education empowers communities and builds the foundation for human progress. Since 2002, we have provided nearly $818 million for education programs, with $140 million directed specifically toward teacher training programs in the United States. Our education programs have helped train more than 72,000 teachers. In 2012 alone, we directed more than $116 million toward education initiatives worldwide, of which $38 million was dedicated to math and science education in the United States, with a focus on teacher development, teacher training and inspiring kids to pursue these critical subjects. Country-level investments We focus country-level community investments on specific social and economic challenges in an area. We identify these challenges through the application of our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard and with our National Content Plans (see page 51). Around the world, country-specific investments address needs ranging from community water access to inoculations against disease. When determining where and how to invest, we consider the development goals of each community, as well as the potential benefit to our operations. We also monitor conditions in each country where we operate and provide emergency support. In 2012, we responded to severe flooding in Nigeria, as well as to Hurricane Sandy, which hit the eastern coast of the United States. Volunteerism and Giving Our worldwide spending includes contributions to non-profit organizations; we also invest in social projects through various joint-venture arrangements, production-sharing agreements 2012 Community Investments 2012 Community Investments by Focus Area1 by Geographic Region1 (millions of dollars) (millions of dollars) Employee and United States retiree giving $157 Other $40 education Arts and culture $18 $5 Public Civic and policy community research $49 $9 Worldwide total $256 Worldwide total Pre-college $256 education $49 Canada Europe/ Environment $16 Caspian $4 $24 Latin America Asia Pacific $2United appeals and Health Africa/Middle East workplace giving $25 $13 $44 $8 Higher education $49 .Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and foundation donations, and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. Up Close: Combatting Malaria in Angola With support from ExxonMobil and the Benguela Provincial Malaria Control Program, the Benguela Consortium — a collaborative effort between Humana People to People, the International Health Organization and the Circle Rastafarian of Benguela — has helped reduce reported malaria cases and malaria-related deaths in Benguela, a province in western Angola. The consortium provides families and municipal health posts with mosquito nets, organizes community cleanup campaigns in mosquito breeding areas, and trains teachers and students in prevention and treatment methods. Consortium representatives also host community awareness rallies aimed at educating local citizens on effective prevention techniques. Between 2009 and 2011, the Consortium reached more than 178,000 individuals in the province, and the results have been significant. This team effort helped decrease reported malaria cases in Benguela by more than 44 percent between 2009 and 2011. The number of malaria-related deaths decreased by approximately 80 percent during the same time period. 2Data from a Presidential Malaria Initiative-financed study conducted by Catholic Relief Services. and projects operated by others. In 2012, Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates and the ExxonMobil Foundation provided a combined $216 million in cash, goods and services worldwide. Of that total, $120 million supported U.S. communities and $96 million supported communities in other countries. Through company-sponsored volunteer programs, more than 23,200 ExxonMobil employees and retirees and their families donated approximately 776,300 volunteer hours to more than 5,300 charitable organizations in more than 40 countries in 2012. Employees and retirees donated $40 million through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs. When combined with corporate and foundation donations, ExxonMobil, together with our employees and retirees, contributed $256 million to community investments worldwide. Implementing Strategic Community Investments Country-Led Initiatives: 2012 Highlights Kazakhstan Combatting infant morbidity and mortality is one of Kazakhstan’s most significant social issues. ExxonMobil Kazakhstan Inc. (EMKI) supported the Breathe, Baby project at the Atyrau Regional Perinatal Center. Underweight babies — typically those born at less than 5.5 pounds — are at a greater risk of dying in infancy. EMKI worked with the regional health care department of Atyrau to identify equipment needed to improve infant survival rates, including breathing machines, resuscitation tables, fetal monitors and X-ray devices. In addition, EMKI’s donation funded training for medical personnel in perinatal and neonatal practices through a partnership with a medical academy in the Ukraine. EMKI also covers the tuition of medical students who commit to working in public health care institutions of the Atyrau region for three years after graduation. This helps address the area’s lack of specialized medical personnel. Indonesia ExxonMobil’s affiliate in Indonesia, Mobil Cepu Ltd. (MCL), launched a community-based clean water program to reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases and promote healthier living in the Cepu Block of Indonesia. During the dry season, many residents in this area lack reliable access to clean water. To help manage this program and make it sustainable, the community established a committee responsible for managing the budget, constructing and monitoring water facilities and handling distribution of water. For example, in the Ngasem Village, a new water tower serves as the key source of potable water and is distributed to community households through an installed pipeline network. Thus far, this program has benefited more than 25,000 community members in 17 villages. Corporate-Level Initiatives: 2012 Highlights Malaria Initiative With ExxonMobil support, Malaria No More launched its NightWatch program in Chad and Tanzania during 2012, building on successful programs in Senegal and Cameroon. NightWatch uses the voices of local and international celebrities in nightly reminders urging people to sleep under protective mosquito bed nets. A recent evaluation of the Cameroon NightWatch program published in Malaria Journal indicates that, among Cameroonians with at least one net at home, exposure to the NightWatch campaign was associated with a 6.6 percentage-point increase in last-night net use among adults and a 12 percentage-point increase among children under age five. Furthermore, the results indicate that approximately 298,000 adults and more than 221,000 of their children under age five slept under a bed net as a result of knowledge, motivation or a timely reminder provided by NightWatch. For more information, see exxonmobil.com/malaria and malariajournal.com. Math and Science Initiative With a $125 million commitment from ExxonMobil, the National Math and Science Initiative (NMSI) continues to improve math and science education significantly in the United States. Since its inception in 2007, NMSI has reached 2.1 million students. NMSI’s Advanced Placement (AP) program has been particularly successful, achieving record-setting results over the past five years. As of 2012, NMSI had implemented its AP program in 462 schools throughout 18 states. After just one year, the number of students with qualifying AP math, science and English exam scores increased by 79 percent, 11 times the national average. Gains for traditionally underrepresented groups have also been substantial — the program increased the qualifying scores of African-American and Hispanic students by 107 percent after just one year in the program. For more information, see exxonmobil.com/citizenship and nationalmathandscience.org. Women’s Economic Opportunity Initiative In 2012, the ExxonMobil Foundation and the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women released a comprehensive study examining how mobile phone applications and services can help women entrepreneurs develop and grow their businesses. The resulting report, Mobile Value Added Services: A Business Growth Opportunity for Women Entrepreneurs, outlines the main business challenges that women entrepreneurs in Indonesia, Nigeria and Egypt face; identifies existing and new mobile value-added services that could be used to address these challenges; and prepares a business case for scaling up the services that would likely have the greatest impact on women entrepreneurs. Based on the research findings, the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women and the ExxonMobil Foundation are providing women entrepreneurs in Nigeria and Indonesia with a tailored mobile phone application and training. The program will be expanded to Mexico and Tanzania in 2013. For more information, see exxonmobil.com/womensinitiative and cherieblairfoundation.org. Terms of Engagement This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Exxon Mobil Corporation. Lloyd s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) was commissioned by Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) to assure its processes used in the creation of the Corporate Citizenship Report (CCR) for the calendar year 2012. Our terms of engagement were to review the processes for reporting safety, health and environmental core International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) performance indicators and ExxonMobil-selected additional indicators. This did not include verifying the accuracy of data and information reported. LRQA has reviewed ExxonMobil s reporting processes since 2005 (for the 2004 CCR). Management Responsibility ExxonMobil s management was responsible for preparing the CCR and for maintaining effective internal controls over the data and information disclosed. LRQA s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the CCR in accordance with our contract with ExxonMobil. Ultimately, the CCR has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of, ExxonMobil. LRQA s Approach Our verification has been conducted against the requirements of LRQA s Report Verification procedure. The objectives of the assurance engagement were to verify the integrity of the processes used for determining which material issues to report, and to evaluate consistency with the following industry guidelines: • The IPIECA, the International Oil and Gas Producers Association (OGP) and the American Petroleum Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010) • The API Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emission (GHG) Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (February 2004) To form our conclusions, the assurance was undertaken as a sampling exercise and covered the following activities: • Reviewing the reported information to confirm the inclusion of all core safety, health and environmental performance indicators referenced in the IPIECA/API Guidance • Reviewing the documented reporting requirements against the applicable industry guidelines to assure consistency of scope, definition and reporting for each of the relevant indicators • Reviewing the reporting processes at Headquarters and at each of the functional business levels to evaluate the processes used by ExxonMobil to assure completeness, consistency and conformance to reporting requirements across its global operations •Reviewing the stakeholder engagement processes • Reviewing the processes used to aggregate the data and information at the corporate level for inclusion in the CCR • Reviewing the data reporting processes at a sample of 12 operating sites to assess local understanding and implementation of reporting requirements. Sites selected were Rotterdam Plastics, Netherlands; Torrance Refinery, United States; Kearl Project, Canada; Beaumont Polyetheylene Plant, United States; Baytown Olefins Plant, United States; and lubricant facilities in Vado, Italy; Vallejo, Mexico; Sarnia, Canada; Cartagena, Colombia; Olathe, United States and Port Allen, United States Level of Assurance The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance. LRQA s Opinion Based on LRQA s approach, ExxonMobil s reporting system was effective in delivering safety, health and environmental indicators that are useful for assessing corporate performance and reporting information consistent with IPIECA/API Guidance. It should be noted that: • Processes were in place to ensure that sites contributing to core safety, health and environmental metrics understood corporate reporting obligations and were included in corporate safety, health and environmental reporting • Methods used for calculating each metric were defined clearly and communicated • Processes were in place to ensure that the quantitative indicators were checked for completeness, consistency and accuracy • Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines was clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken • Guidelines for greenhouse gas emissions reporting were consistent with, and specifically refer to, the API Compendium for GHG Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (February 2004) • Active engagement with external stakeholders provided information for determining material issues. LRQA s Recommendations Observations and areas for potential improvement were provided in a report to ExxonMobil s management. These recommendations do not affect our opinion. Andrea M. Bockrath On behalf of Lloyd s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 19 March 2013 1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200 Houston, Texas 77077 LRQA Reference: UQA0110889 This document is subject to the provision below: This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Lloyd s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiar ies and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the Lloyd s Register Group.” The Lloyd s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice, and in that case, any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. Because of the inherent limitations in any internal control, it is pos sible that fraud, error or noncompliance with laws and regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the requirements set out above, as the verification has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls was on a test basis. Any projection of the evaluation of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the processes may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them may deteriorate. The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. Corporate Headquarters 5959 Las Colinas Blvd. Irving, Texas 75039-2298 exxonmobil.com Note: Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso and XTO. For convenience and simplicity, those terms and terms such as Corporation, company, our, we and its are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. ExxonMobil is a publicly traded company. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is the principal exchange on which Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock (symbol XOM) is traded. 