CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At ExxonMobil, our disciplined approach to corporate governance is a part of our success. We believe that an unwavering commitment to high ethical standards and business integrity is critical to our competitive advantage and securing shareholder value. Board of Directors Our board of directors provides independent oversight of the Corporation’s affairs. All directors stand for election at our annual meeting of shareholders. At year-end 2012, 11 of 12 directors, including the presiding director and all members of key board committees, were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) guidelines. In 2012, the board of directors met 10 times, and visited LaBarge, Wyoming, to review affiliated operations. Board leadership structure The independent board members select an independent director to serve a minimum of two years as presiding director. The presiding director chairs executive sessions of the independent directors and works closely with the chairman to develop board agendas, topics and schedules. All directors may request agenda topics for board or board committee meetings, and all have the authority to call special meetings of the independent directors. At this time, the board serves the best interests of the shareholders through a leadership model with a combined chairman of the board and chief executive officer (CEO). With more than 37 years of service in both domestic and international positions, our current CEO possesses in-depth knowledge of the Corporation and the challenges of an evolving energy industry. Board appointment process Achieving a board of directors that is diverse in gender, race, geography, experiences and fields of expertise is critical to successful business in a globalized market. The Board Affairs Committee nominates director candidates in accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection of Non-Employee Directors. The committee looks for highly qualified non-employee candidates with demonstrated competency in a particular field and a commitment to represent the interests of all shareholders. Other desirable qualities include: • Financial expertise • Experience as the CEO or senior executive of a significant company or organization, with responsibilities for global operations • Experience on one or more boards of significant public or non-governmental organizations • Expertise resulting from significant pro.fessionally or academically based scientific or research activities In 2012, the board included female, African-American and international members. Two new directors, Henrietta Fore and Ursula Burns, were identified, recruited and appointed for election in 2012. We describe current director qualifications in our proxy statement. Board committees Corporate citizenship topics fall under the purview of the Public Issues and Contributions Committee Our board of directors provides independent oversight of the Corporation s affairs. Board members seated from left to right: Edward E. Whitacre, Jr., Michael J. Boskin, Jay S. Fishman, Ursula M. Burns, Peter Brabeck Letmathe and Samuel J. Palmisano. Board members standing from left to right: Steven S Reinemund, Henrietta H. Fore, Larry R. Faulkner, Rex W. Tillerson, William W. George and Kenneth C. Frazier. (PICC), the Board Affairs Committee and the Compensation Committee, and are routinely reviewed at board committee meetings. Only independent directors serve on these committees, each of which met between five and eight times in 2012. The entire ExxonMobil board of directors receives in-depth briefings at least annually that cover updates on public policy and scientific and technical research, as well as company positions and actions in these areas. The board is responsible for risk oversight; committees help the board focus on risk aspects relevant to each committee. For example, the board’s PICC is responsible for the oversight of safety, health, social responsibility and environmental performance, including climate change risk. The PICC reviews the effectiveness of the Corporation’s policies, programs and practices in these areas. The PICC also hears reports from operating units on safety and environmental activities, and visits operating sites to observe and comment on current operating practices. Each committee’s charter is available on our website. Executive compensation and strategic advantage At ExxonMobil, our compensation program is carefully structured to support long-term shareholder value given the capital-intensive nature of our business, long investment lead times and the critical importance of managing risk. The most senior executives — including the CEO, Named Executive Officers and more than 1,000 other U.S. executives — participate in a common compensation program. Safety is a core value for ExxonMobil. Com.pensation decisions for executives take into account several strategic key criteria, including results in the areas of safety, security, health and environmental performance. The Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS), which establishes common expectations for addressing inherent risks in our business, takes priority over other business and financial objectives. Compensation is based on a rigorous annual individual performance assessment process, and ExxonMobil executives understand that their compensation will reflect how effectively they implement OIMS. The design of the compensation program, including long holding periods for stock-based awards and risk of forfeiture of these awards, ensures that senior executives have a strong financial incentive to focus on long-term operations integrity as they protect the safety and security of our employees, the communities and environments in which we operate, and the sustainable value of the company for shareholders. The Compensation Committee carefully considered the results of the 2012 advisory vote on executive compensation, in which more than 77 percent of votes cast were “for” the company’s compensation program. The committee considered shareholder feedback on executive compensation received through a wide-ranging dialogue between management and numerous shareholders, including the company’s largest shareholders, many of whom have held ExxonMobil stock for more than a decade. All shareholders were invited to a webinar in 2012 to facilitate their understanding of the linkage between our compensation program and business priorities. These outreach initiatives provided an excellent opportunity to discuss the relationship between pay and business results, including the company’s safety and environmental results Up Close: Board Affairs Committee The Board Affairs Committee (BAC) reviews and provides advisory direction on compliance and corporate governance guidelines and identifies individuals qualified to become board members. The role allows the BAC to plan for non-employee director successions and review candidates nominated by shareholders and other outside sources. In 2012, one ExxonMobil board member retired and the BAC identified, recruited and nominated two new directors — Henrietta Fore and Ursula Burns. Both women are now active members of the board. Current directors, working with an executive search firm, identified these candidates. At the BAC’s direction, ExxonMobil personnel conducted extensive research on both candidates to verify their credentials. The BAC then nominated these two candidates as potential board members, and the full board elected them. and our long-standing philosophy that executive compensation should be based on long-term performance. A more detailed description of the company’s dialogue with shareholders and considerations by the Compensation Committee regarding the advisory say-on-pay vote can be found on page 62 of the proxy statement issued April 12, 2013. ExxonMobil is committed to continued engage.ment with shareholders to fully understand diverse viewpoints and to discuss the important connections between the company’s compensation program, business strategy and long-term financial and operating performance. Communicating with directors ExxonMobil’s directors encourage open and transparent communication on corporate citizenship topics. Individuals can email our non-employee directors through the Corporate Governance page of our website or send written correspondence in care of the Secretary of the Corporation. ExxonMobil employees work closely with directors in responding to these letters and emails. Directors sometimes request that senior managers meet with shareholders to address particular topics. Shareholder Relations We engage in constructive dialogue with our shareholders on a variety of issues throughout the year. In 2012, we had 34 shareholder dialogues with labor unions, religious organizations, state pension funds, socially responsible investors and ExxonMobil has engaged with shareholders on a variety of important topics, including: institutional shareholders. At the Corporation’s 2012 annual meeting, shareholders owning approximately 3.9 billion — or nearly 83 percent — of the outstanding shares were represented. Shareholders voted on directors, independent auditors, executive compensation and six other shareholder proposals. • Board diversity • Human rights policy • Executive compensation • Renewable energy • Amendment of Equal Employment Opportunity policy • Independent chairman • Health in Africa • Political contributions • Climate risk • Security in Aceh, Indonesia • Equatorial Guinea • Biodiversity impact • Energy technology • Special shareholder meetings • Cumulative voting • Shareholder advisory vote on executive compensation • Community environmental impact • Arctic National Wildlife Refuge drilling • Climate change and technology • Greenhouse gas emissions goals • Canadian oil sands • Shale gas operations • Water • Wetlands restoration Every year, ExxonMobil receives suggestions from shareholders on ways to improve the company. Management and the board consider these suggestions and typically seek a dialogue with the proposal sponsor. The Corporate Citizenship Report, Energy Outlook, Carbon Disclosure Project submission, and ExxonMobil’s website content have been helpful in discussions with shareholders. Our public disclosures demonstrate that we report on matters important to our shareholders, which helps build understanding regarding the company’s progress on certain issues. In the past five years, proponents have withdrawn 18 proposals on governance, social and environmental issues from labor, individuals, religious groups and socially responsible investors. When an agreement is not reached, the proposal and the board’s response and recommendation are published in our proxy statement for review at the annual meeting of shareholders. For example, in 2011 and 2012, ExxonMobil received a shareholder proposal requesting the separation of the positions of chairman of the board and CEO. The board evaluated this proposal and believes that the decision as to who should serve as chairman and CEO and whether those offices should be combined or separated is the proper responsibility of the board. Shareholder support of this proposal was approximately 35 percent. Ethics Performing with the highest ethical standards of business conduct is a key competitive strength — critical to maintaining our global license to operate. Our presence in nearly every country of the world requires training on international trade laws, including U.S. anti-corruption and anti-trust laws, as well as those in other countries where we do business. All employees are expected to uphold the highest ethical standards of business integrity. Each must comply with all applicable laws and accurately record and track all business transactions. Employees are subject to disciplinary action, including termination, for violations of our policies. Employees receive training on our ethics policy every four years through business practices reviews, including a detailed review of our Standards of Business Conduct, implementation guidelines and procedures, and the Corporation’s anti-trust and anti-corruption policies. These general training sessions, in addition to more comprehensive training given to relevant functions on a more frequent basis, are a condition of employment at ExxonMobil. Standards of Business Conduct Our Standards of Business Conduct define the global ethical conduct of the Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries. These Standards, adopted and administered by the board of directors, uphold the values of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. While ExxonMobil is not a formal signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, its values represent key elements of our Standards. No one has authority to make exceptions or grant waivers to the Standards, and employees are expected to review the Standards each year. Disciplinary action is taken against any employee who violates them. Internal audits Regular internal audits and self-assessments help ensure the rigorous implementation of our control systems and Standards of Business Conduct. ExxonMobil’s internal team of more than 200 auditors annually audits approximately one-third of ExxonMobil’s operations, conducting detailed assessments of facilities, business units, personnel and records, and thoroughly investigating noncompliance with the standards. These audits are conducted across all functions of the Corporation. Bribery and corruption Anti-corruption practices are an essential component of our compliance program, given that we operate globally and in many challenging environments. 2012 Proxy Vote Summary Proxy item 1. Election of Directors (average). 2. Ratification of Independent Auditors. 3. Advisory Vote to Approve Executive Compensation. 4. Independent Chairman 5. Majority Vote for Directors 6. Report on Political Contributions 7. Amendment of Equal Employment Opportunity Policy 8. Report on Natural Gas Production 9. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Goals Percent vote for. 2012  2011  2010  97.4  96.0  95.3  98.6  98.8  98.9  77.8  67.2  –  35.1  31.3  –  43.3  –  –  23.6  23.6  –  20.6  19.9  22.2  29.6  28.2  26.3  27.1  26.5  27.2  .Abstentions count for quorum purposes, but not toward voting on these proposals. .Proposals submitted by the board. The Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Summary outlines ExxonMobil’s commitment to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the United Kingdom Bribery Act and global anti-corruption standards in all business relationships. It also describes elements of the Corporation’s anti-corruption compliance program. ExxonMobil employees and contractors are prohibited from making payments to, or engaging in transactions with, government officials to influence the performance of their official duties improperly. Maintaining internal controls and keeping accurate and complete transaction records are required. Our standard language for procurement contracts includes a requirement to comply with all laws, keep accurate books and records, and where appropriate, contains specific anti-bribery commitments. Training Oil and gas exploration and production often take us to remote parts of the world, with changing political and regulatory climates. In 2012, approximately 31,000 employees took part in anti-corruption training. This training covers the basics of the FCPA, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, global anti-corruption standards, recent developments in enforcement, and compliance with our internal anti-corruption policy, guidelines and processes. Employees in positions assessed to be higher-risk receive training every year and within three months of entering their positions. Every two years, managers and professional employees not in higher-risk positions receive training. Every four years, all ExxonMobil employees are required to attend half-day business practices reviews that include anti-corruption issues. In 2012, employees around the world attended business practices review sessions. Additionally, we monitor legal and regulatory developments and advise employees as appropriate. Reporting violations We reinforce our commitment to ethics and high standards of business conduct with the expectation that all employees will report suspected violations of laws and company policies. The Corporation provides several confidential mechanisms for reporting, including a 24-hour phone number and a mailing address. Employees can also report violations during supervisory reviews. Confidentiality is respected throughout the investigation process subject to legal requirements; penalizing or threatening an employee for filing a report is prohibited. A Hotline Steering Committee comprising security, audit, law and human resources personnel reviews all reports of suspected violations. The Hotline Steering Committee provides a quarterly report to the Audit Committee, including any violations or major issues. Violations lead to disciplinary actions, including dismissal. Stakeholder Engagement: SIRAN The Sustainable Investment Research Analyst Network (SIRAN) is a network within the Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment that supports sustainable investment research analysts from more than 50 North American investment firms, research providers and affiliated investor groups. SIRAN’s goals include serving as a resource to companies and an educational forum for analysts. In 2012, ExxonMobil participated in three SIRAN teleconferences: one on operating at Kearl, one discussing stakeholder engagement related to Canada’s indigenous people and one on climate policy. Control systems ExxonMobil’s System of Management Control Basic Standards defines essential principles and concepts that drive our business controls. Our Controls Integrity Management System is designed to assess and measure financial control risks, including procedures for mitigating concerns, monitoring compliance with standards and reporting results to the appropriate operations and management groups within ExxonMobil. These company-wide financial controls meet or exceed the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and New York Stock Exchange listing standards. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP conducted an independent assessment that determined our internal controls system is effective for financial reporting. Regular self-assessments and audits help ensure that every operating unit consistently implements our controls and standards. Political Advocacy and Contributions ExxonMobil continues to support policies that promote stable investment climates for long-term business viability. ExxonMobil makes political contributions to candidate committees, political parties, political associations and other political organizations as permitted by applicable laws in the United States and Canada and as authorized by the board of directors. The Corporation refrains In 2012, ExxonMobil board members visited our operations in LaBarge, Wyoming, to learn about natural gas processing and technological innovations in carbon sequestration. from making political contributions in any nation other than the United States and Canada. In 2012, Exxon Mobil Corporation contributed a total of $282,400 to legislative and gubernatorial candidates and caucuses in 15 states. Information about our Political Activities Policy and Guidelines and an itemized list of corporate political contributions to national political organizations and state candidates and caucuses is available on our website. ExxonMobil’s employee- and retiree-shareholder.funded political action committee (PAC) disbursed $1,064,000 to federal candidates in 2012. Based on the 2011–2012 election cycle contributions, CQ Moneyline listed the ExxonMobil PAC No. 86 in size compared with other PACs. Among corporate PACs, the ExxonMobil PAC ranked No. 39 in terms of receipts from employees and retiree shareholders and No. 33 in total contributions to candidates. All rankings are compiled from publicly available data filed with the Federal Election Commission. ExxonMobil, like many U.S. companies, labor unions and other entities, lobbies the U.S. Congress and state legislatures and complies fully with regulations by reporting federal lobbying expenses in quarterly disclosure reports to Congress. In 2012, ExxonMobil reported lobbying expenses of $12.97 million. CQ Moneyline ranked ExxonMobil No. 22 for lobbying expenses. We lobbied on a number of public policy topics, including energy policy, trade, taxes, pipeline safety, security and climate policy. There is widespread interest from many constituent groups on how the United States pursues sound national energy policy. We anticipate and look forward to many active discussions with those who have an interest in this area. ExxonMobil also engages with trade associations at national, state and local levels. Participation in these organizations helps support our positions on issues critical to shareholder interests. Some of the support we provide to trade associations may be used for lobbying activities. ExxonMobil requires trade associations to report to us the portion of dues used for lobbying purposes, and we include these amounts in quarterly public Lobby Disclosure Act filings. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENTAn ExxonMobil subsea wellhead being prepared and tested at a fabrication yard in Luanda, Angola. As we develop oil and gas resources to meet the world’s growing energy needs, we work to build and sustain local economic growth and improve social conditions. Highlighting a Decade of Performance Our priorities since 2002 Contribute to economic growth in local communities Established the expectation for national content as part of our Upstream business planning process in 2008 Implemented and stewarded national content programs in all countries where the majority of our Upstream operations are concentrated Develop strong local workforces and suppliers Established a national workforce that on average accounts for 87 percent of the workers in Angola, Cameroon, Chad, Indonesia, Malaysia, Nigeria and Russia through aggressive local recruitment efforts and world-class training and development programs Helped establish and maintain Enterprise Centers in Angola, Chad, Kazakhstan and Papua New Guinea Reach $1 billion in spending with U.S. minority- and women-owned businesses by 2012 Achieved $1 billion in spending with U.S. minority- and women-owned businesses in 2011, and again in 2012, through direct purchases and spending leveraged from our suppliers on our behalf Partner with local governments to bring the benefits of oil and gas development to local populations Supported the application to, and validation of 14 countries with the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) Our continued responsibilities Leave a positive economic impact in the countries where we operate by continuously improving our national content approach Advance local hires into senior technical, supervisory and managerial positions Focus our training and development programs on expanding our global workforce and equipping nationals with industry-competitive skills to ensure sustainable employment beyond the project life cycle Conduct supplier monitoring reviews to confirm that our partners implement high standards Support revenue transparency through active participation in EITI Ongoing Completed ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT The global community’s shared goals for economic prosperity and progress cannot be achieved without access to energy. In the countries where we operate, we seek to contribute to economic development, creating long-term benefits for local communities and for our business. Economic Growth History demonstrates that energy demand and economic growth go hand in hand. More than 1 billion people worldwide have no access to a reliable source of energy. Improving availability of energy supplies helps develop economies and enhance livelihoods. Development barriers are complex, and the private sector is limited in its ability to address them. We need the creation of business frameworks that enable local economies to thrive through skills development, job creation and opportunities for investment. Partnerships and collaborations can also facilitate economic progress and help steward development targets, such as the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, which range from environmental sustainability and combatting HIV/ AIDS, malaria and other diseases, to promoting gender equality, empowering women and achieving universal primary education. National Content As we develop oil and gas resources to meet the world’s growing energy needs, we work to build and sustain local economic growth and improve social conditions. This defines our national content approach. We work collaboratively with host governments and other stakeholders to implement our national content initiatives, which include developing a local workforce and supplier base, and making strategic community investments. We provide detailed information on ExxonMobil’s strategic community investments at both the country and corporate level on page 64 of this report. To ensure a systematic, long-term approach, we integrate national content into overall project planning and execution through the ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS); see page 18. Our National Content Guidelines, Strategies and Best Practices contain the key elements of a national content strategy and plan; models and tools for the successful development of national content; and roles and responsibilities at the corporate, country and project levels. A unique, fit-for-purpose, project-specific National Content Plan is required for new Upstream projects in emerging markets. We operate in many countries throughout the world, each with different needs, challenges and requirements. Therefore, we aim to create and implement successful National Content Plans and strategies by considering local factors, such as regulatory requirements, development goals, stakeholder expectations, infrastructure, social capacity and the business environment. During 2012, we updated EMCAPS national content requirements to include broader socioeconomic objectives, such as human rights, project impact mitigation and community relations. We also worked on integrating national content into key project planning and execution processes. For example, we now regularly gather and exchange national content best practices and lessons learned among our project teams. Workforce Development We have a responsibility to build a legacy of economic progress in all places where we operate by developing a globally competitive workforce and maximizing local employment opportunities. Our national content programs help us overcome obstacles in identifying and attracting skilled labor and professionals, matching workforce skills to business requirements and retaining and developing local technical and management excellence over the long term. Local hiring While local employment helps us meet our hiring needs, it also advances economic development and education in the countries where we operate. To find qualified individuals, we conduct on-campus recruiting and employee networking, attend trade shows and utilize referrals and external search firms — all good practices in the industry. Such efforts have brought the Workers at the fabrication yard for our Telok A project in Malaysia, where 95 percent of our personnel are Malaysian. We strive to provide our employees with career opportunities and training that are the best in the industry. percentage of nationals in our workforce in Chad and Cameroon to nearly 88 percent. In addition: • In Angola, 78 percent of our personnel are Angolan, 24 percent of whom are women. • In Malaysia, 95 percent of personnel are Malaysian, 32 percent of whom are women. Additionally, 90 percent of managers and supervisors are Malaysian and 19 percent of managers and supervisors are women. • In Nigeria, 92 percent of employees are local, 14 percent of whom are women; 17 percent of local staff are in supervisory and managerial positions. • In Indonesia, 89 percent of employees are local, 31 percent of whom are women; 14 percent of local staff are in supervisory and managerial positions. Russian nationals make up more than 80 percent of the workforce at our Sakhalin operations, but we are facing a number of challenges to achieving our 90 percent nationalization target (see page 56). The pool of qualified engineering and technical specialists is limited, and the competition for local talent is strong. In order to develop and retain a diverse and skilled workforce, we conduct extensive searches in other regions of Russia, and provide critical training, experience and mentoring to ensure that local staff reach required levels of expertise. We also advance the skills and industry knowledge of many of the host country nationals we hire by providing training opportunities and expatriate assignments in other countries. Where applicable, our contracts include requirements to hire and train a national workforce. We work collaboratively with our suppliers and contractors to overcome challenges related to the availability of qualified candidates and in-country training capabilities. ExxonMobil expatriates (individuals working in a country other than their country of permanent residence) share their expertise, train and mentor nationals for operational and leadership roles. In addition, a large number of expatriates from company locations around the world are on development assignments in other countries to enhance their skills. They will share the lessons learned on their return to their own country, further enhancing local capacity. In 2012, expatriates accounted for approximately 5 percent of our global workforce. Training and development We strive to provide our employees with career opportunities and training that are the best in the industry, encouraging growth and achievement. We provide education and skills development through a proven global training curriculum customized to our operational environment. Over the long term, this helps us develop competent and committed employees fully prepared to meet future business needs both locally and around the world. In Papua New Guinea, we continue to exceed our workforce forecast for hiring nationals. The current construction workforce at our liquefied natural 2012 Expatriates by Region of Origin Up Close: A Decade of Workforce Development in Chad ExxonMobil and our affiliates have been working on the Chad production and Chad/Cameroon pipeline projects since 2002. Over the years, we have seen significant development in local capacity, in part due to our comprehensive training programs. For example, our Business Skills Training Program helps prepare Chadian and Cameroonian staff for management and leadership positions. Since its inception in 2003, more than 900 employees have participated in the program. The training consists of project-based and interactive classes on topics ranging from business writing to effective teamwork to problem-solving. The success of the program is evident by the fact that many participants have been promoted to supervisory or management roles. As of 2012, more than 50 percent of the projects’ supervisors are Chadian and Cameroonian nationals. In 2012, Chadians and Cameroonians made up approximately 88 percent of our total workforce in these two countries and almost 80 percent of them are employed in the semi-skilled, skilled or supervisory job categories. Another example of long-term capacity building is the Technical Trainee Program, now in its 11th year. In the first class of 2001, Thierry Njip and 21 other candidates were hired to be pipeline operators. Training consisted of one year of paid study at a university in northern Cameroon, followed by one year of on-the-job instruction in the United States. After graduation, Thierry worked as a pump station operator trainee, mentored by an expatriate. More than a decade later, Thierry is still with ExxonMobil and was recently promoted to maintenance field superintendent. Eighteen members of his class are also still employed with ExxonMobil; most are in senior roles. “The training we received at Cameroon Oil Transportation Company Consortium (COTCO) was very important for our success here. Those two years I spent as a trainee were some of the best years of my life. I believe this project has already delivered a lot to Cameroon — for example, in public health efforts like fighting malaria, in community outreach efforts and in creating local jobs. The company’s philosophy of honesty, fairness and ethics stands out.” — Thierry Njip, field superintendent gas project includes more than 8,400 Papua New Guinean workers, and they make up approximately 40 percent of the total construction workforce for the project. In 2011, the first group of trainees began operations and maintenance technician training. They have now completed their advanced skills training in Nova Scotia, Canada. Shortly after returning, the 62 trainees began on-the-job training, including mentoring from experienced operations and maintenance personnel in Papua New Guinea. ExxonMobil also aims to develop and hire Papua New Guinean nationals in other fields. For example, several environmental field advisors were appointed to full-time positions with Esso Highlands Limited in 2012. In Kazakhstan, continuous training and devel.opment of national staff remains a primary long-term focus. In 2012, we spent a total of 1,554 hours and more than $224,000 delivering training to 34 employees, 26 of whom were women. We provided technical and general training, as well as international training assignments to ensure long-term development of local staff. ExxonMobil employees in Kazakhstan are also gaining valuable expertise on international assignments in Australia, Canada, Kurdistan, Norway and the United States. Supplier Development In addition to developing a local workforce, ExxonMobil works to develop local suppliers, which further boosts host country economic development and supports our business objectives. We promote local capacity building by helping local suppliers meet our prequalification requirements, providing training for entrepreneurs and creating business opportunities for local small and medium enterprises. Our goal is to establish and maintain a reliable, sustainable and globally competitive supply chain wherever we operate. We sometimes face difficulties obtaining local suppliers due to a lack of capabilities and limited local business expertise. To overcome these issues in Angola, Esso Angola, along with several other oil and gas companies, helped establish a local business center, known as Centro de Apoio Empresarial, to administer Angola’s Supplier Training Initiative (STI). STI enables local suppliers to participate more effectively in the competitive bidding processes by helping them develop adequate business plans, build relationships with the procurement departments of oil and gas companies, and improve their contract management capabilities. Through STI, companies or individuals can receive training, consulting and mentoring. To date, STI has trained 248 suppliers. Of these, 150 have met ExxonMobil’s rigorous qualification standards to become certified bidders. More than 1,650 additional suppliers are in the process of working with STI to become future suppliers.  In Indonesia, we initiated a similar program to educate potential suppliers about our bidding process and provide training. Working with the local government, ExxonMobil held the first session in November 2012, targeting approximately 80 local suppliers. The session helped educate vendors on the prequalification program and local content requirements to enable them to register for Mobil Cepu Limited’s potential bidder list. To see how we are developing suppliers in Sakhalin, see page 56. Supply Chain Management Third parties providing services to ExxonMobil can impact our operations and reputation. We rely on more than 160,000 suppliers of goods and services. Because our global reach expands well beyond our fence lines, we seek and develop relationships with suppliers that uphold our commitment to operational integrity. Procurement process Our supply chain management process begins when any of ExxonMobil’s business lines identifies operational or project needs requiring the procurement of third-party goods, services or diligence where appropriate), perform restricted-materials. We apply a standardized procurement parties screening and incorporate standard approach that allows our operations to share the legal terms and conditions into contracts. After same rigorous standards, accountability and prequalification, our procurement professionals good practices worldwide. Our procurement staff communicate project expectations or operational is trained to conduct supplier prequalification requirements that a potential or existing supplier assessments (which include anti-corruption due must meet. Up Close: Nigeria Supply Chain Development Limited manufacturing capacity and lack of skilled workers have been obstacles to expanding our local supplier base in Nigeria. After many years of development and proactive engagement with local manufacturers, we celebrated the completion of the first of three floating platforms developed entirely in Nigeria. ExxonMobil implemented the project with the objective of developing local engineering workforce capability and increasing the capacity of local fabricators. The project was performed to international standards, including more than 4.3 million hours worked with no lost-time safety incidents. To complete the project, 30 locals were trained to National Content Development and Monitoring Board standards in technical skills like welding and fitting. The project delivered on the government’s objectives of increasing the country’s oil and gas production, employing local workers, and ensuring the long-term availability and viability of in-country goods and services. The results demonstrate the long-term value of increasing Nigeria’s local engineering, welding and fabricating workforce capacity. Platforms were successfully placed in permanent offshore locations, and drilling began in late 2012. Supplier qualifications ExxonMobil has in place a disciplined qualification process for suppliers. Once the business line has determined the operational requirements, procurement clearly communicates those requirements to potential suppliers through the proposed contract language. This process is used whether ExxonMobil is procuring a pump for a refinery, janitorial services at an office building or hiring a fabricator to build an offshore structure. Potential suppliers and their capabilities are then assessed based on operational criticality and level of risk associated with the material or service required. Considerations include: • Health, safety and security requirements • Technical qualifications • Environmental requirements • Design, construction and project assurance and procedures • Product quality assurance, including product stewardship • Supplier operational, maintenance and control processes • Financial qualifications Additionally, supplier selection takes into account both regulatory and ExxonMobil policies regarding local hiring, material use, supplier diversity, indigenous peoples support, historically underutilized segments of the population and the local economy. We comply with specific supplier-related requirements in each country where we operate. When selecting a supplier, we evaluate the bids submitted and make a determination based on quality, technical capabilities and cost. When we are procuring a component for a specific project, the safety and viability of the project may rely on assurances of product quality. For example, if we need to purchase pipe for one of our Upstream projects, we perform extensive analysis and testing to confirm the pipe complies with project specifications. $1billion in spending with U.S. minority- and women-owned businesses in 2012 through direct purchases and spending by our suppliers on our behalf Supplier diversity We cultivate diversity across our supply chain through our U.S.-based Supplier Diversity Program. This program proactively includes qualified minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs) in our procurement sourcing process. In 2012, we purchased materials and services worth $788 million directly from MWBEs. An additional $213 million was leveraged through contracts where suppliers purchased from MWBEs on our behalf, for a total annual expenditure of more than $1 billion. The Women’s Business Enterprise National Council has recognized ExxonMobil as one of America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises for the past seven years. Our Supplier Diversity Program is steadily expanding into the international arena through our active involvement with WEConnect International and the National Minority Supplier Development Council’s International Program Advisory Council. Both have a mission to identify, certify and develop MWBEs in a number of countries outside the United States. Procurement transparency Our suppliers must adhere to local and national laws, regulations and the specific requirements of ExxonMobil policies and procedures on safety, health, security and the environment. Our Statement on Labor and the Workplace articulates our support for the principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Up Close: North Baton Rouge Industrial Training Initiative ExxonMobil’s 105-year-old Baton Rouge complex is located in a neighborhood that accounts for 13 percent of the city’s population and 30 percent of its homicides. Only 35 percent of the neighborhood population has a high school degree, and the unemployment rate is 40 percent. Through engagement with our contracting partners and the local community, ExxonMobil identified an opportunity to help meet an industry demand for a technically trained workforce and help our neighbors secure training and employment. Launched in August 2012, the North Baton Rouge Industrial Training Initiative is a collaborative effort among the Capital Area Technical College, Baton Rouge Community College, ExxonMobil, other industrial leaders, non-profit organizations and community resource partners. The initiative provides selected participants with free training in one of three concentrations — pipefitting, welding or electrical. The technical college accepted and enrolled 59 of the 200 individuals that applied for the pilot course, which ran from Oct. 1, 2012, to Feb. 18, 2013, and produced 46 graduates, exceeding the first-year goal of 45. In addition to technical training, the students learned skills that will help them get and keep Students participating in the North Baton Rouge Industrial Training Initiative receive tutoring and mentoring from retired ExxonMobil employee volunteers to help prepare them for future employment. a job after graduation. HOPE Ministries and representatives from stakeholder companies, including an ExxonMobil retiree volunteer group, served as mentors and are helping program participants understand industry expectations, create resumes and prepare for job interviews. Plans are currently in place to replicate the pilot program. “Through the leadership of Steve Blume and the entire ExxonMobil team, we have been able to bring together a diverse group of local industry and community leaders, with the goal of connecting local residents with career opportunities and filling high-demand jobs. We must provide our students with the tools they need to succeed... and when our students succeed, our community succeeds. That has been the goal of the North Baton Rouge Training Initiative from its inception.” — Andrea Lewis Miller, Chancellor of Baton Rouge Community College Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, namely the elimination of child labor, forced labor and workplace discrimination. Through our regimented procurement process, we seek business partners who observe similar standards. Purchases arranged for by our global procurement organization typically include contract language that requires adherence to all applicable laws and regulations, which would include all laws and regulations regarding safety, security, health, the environment and human rights. Furthermore, requests for quotations issued by our procurement staff typically include clauses relating to the prohibition of forced or child labor and the payment of wages in accordance with local laws. Participants in such tenders are required to adhere to those requirements as a condition of participating in the tender process. Supplier monitoring We use our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) to manage risk across our operations. The OIMS Framework establishes expectations for managing and mitigating safety, security, health, environmental and social risks in every aspect of our business, including our supply chain. After selecting suppliers, each business line is responsible for managing the supplier relation.ship. Implementing OIMS Element 8, Third-Party Services, calls for the monitoring and stewardship of third-party performance. We provide feedback to suppliers and, when necessary, request that they correct deficiencies. In certain cases, we terminate the contractual relationship if performance does not meet expectations. Currently, we are exploring expansion of our standard internal supplier review process to include environmental and social responsibility compliance. This process will allow us to raise our confidence that suppliers are adhering to legal and contractual expectations for environmental protection and social responsibility. Transparency Revenue transparency can be a practical and effective means to fight corruption, improve government accountability and promote greater economic stability in developing and developed countries around the world. The most successful transparency initiatives are those that ensure all relevant players in the public and private sectors and in civil society are fully engaged and properly represented. The initiatives also must respect national sovereignty and local norms and apply to all companies operating in a country. This is why ExxonMobil has supported multi-stakeholder engagement to achieve revenue transparency for the past decade. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative One important global program that encourages transparency and collaboration among governments, companies, civil society and financial institutions is the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which is dedicated to strengthening governance by improving transparency and accountability in the extractives sector. Companies and country governments participating in EITI separately report payments and revenues, respectively, allowing EITI to reconcile any differences between the totals and publish validated total government revenues. ExxonMobil has actively participated in EITI since its inception in 2002, at both the secretariat and country levels, including continuous participation on the EITI board as either a primary or alternate member. Our efforts in this area during the past year have focused on intensive work together with the extractive industry, investor groups and civil society representatives to make sound progress in the EITI process. Nearly 20 countries where we have operations are working on becoming, or have become, EITI members. The Corporation is supporting the EITI application, validation and membership processes of countries such as Azerbaijan, Cameroon, Chad, Indonesia, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Madagascar, Nigeria and Norway, and of potential new applicant EITI countries including Australia, Colombia, Papua New Guinea, Ukraine and the United States. In August 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) published new rules for global government payment reporting. These rules require an unprecedented degree of cost and complexity that will generate a significant volume of data from publicly traded extractive companies. The rules do not apply to state-owned and privately held companies not registered with the SEC, and do not reconcile government revenues with company payments. As a result, the new rules will not enable total government extractive industry revenues to be gathered or reported, which will limit the extent to which this reporting will help improve country governance and government accountability. Compliance will require companies to design and build costly new accounting processes to gather, validate and report many different payment streams. Many key elements in the rules are undefined or unclear. The SEC estimates the cost of compliance for the industry may reach $14 billion. It is ExxonMobil’s policy to comply with all govern.mental laws, rules and regulations applicable to its business. However, because of the unprecedented cost and complexity of these rules, as well as the potential for conflict with other laws, ExxonMobil is also supporting efforts by the National Foreign Trade Council, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Independent Petroleum Association of America and American Petroleum Institute to overturn these rules so that they can be replaced with a more reasonable approach. The European Union is also in the process of revising government revenue reporting rules through new accounting and transparency directives. ExxonMobil supports efforts of the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers to seek directives that strike a reasonable balance between disclosure and economic harm. We will continue to work constructively with all proponents of increased revenue transparency toward policies and programs that reduce corruption and improve governance. Initiatives that pursue those goals provide for a more stable business climate which, in turn, supports stronger and more sustainable economic development in the countries where we operate. ExxonMobil is also developing procedures, consistent with new SEC rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, to confirm that any “conflict minerals” (currently including gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum) that may be necessary to the production or functionality of our products do not originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. Supporting long-term development in the communities where we live and work reaps benefits for ExxonMobil and our stakeholders. Our Sakhalin-1 project in Russia is a good example of the long-term benefits that systematic investments can bring. Exxon Neftegas Limited (ENL), a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, operates the Sakhalin-1 project, which is located off the northeast coast of Sakhalin Island in the Russian Far East. Production of these fields is challenged by the presence of pack ice, three- to five-feet thick six to seven months out of the year, and severe wave activity year-round in an active seismic area. Overcoming these daunting weather-related barriers, coupled with the need to build a complete oil and gas infrastructure in such a remote location, has created unique challenges. Although discovered several decades ago, the Sakhalin-1 fields were not developed until new technologies became available as a result of successful partnerships between Russian and international companies. After a decade in development, first production flowed from the Chayvo field in early October 2005. Today, Sakhalin-1 includes the Chayvo, Odoptu and Arkutun-Dagi oil and gas fields, with potential recoverable resources estimated at 2.3 billion barrels of oil and 485 billion cubic meters of natural gas. As one of the largest single international investments in Russia, Sakhalin-1 is expected to bring more than $89 billion in taxes, royalty payments and the state’s share of oil and gas to the country. Developing a Local Workforce Developing a national workforce and supporting the community are key factors to the project’s ongoing success. Today, ENL and its contractors currently employ more than 600 Russian nationals, making up more than 80 percent of the Sakhalin-1 project workforce. To compete successfully for national workers and meet its needs for skilled field personnel, ENL invests in the training and development of national personnel. ENL has recruited and hired more than 230 Russian operations technicians and engineers for its production facilities. Each of the technicians completes a multi-year training program. Some have been sent to ExxonMobil facilities in the United States and Canada for hands-on-training. Currently, training for operations technicians includes a combination of classroom instruction and on-the-job training at Sakhalin-1 facilities. These operations technicians and engineers reach early competency milestones required for their positions through mentorship and on-the.job training. In addition to work responsibilities, ENL encourages these trainees to take additional classes to enhance their job skills. Through our training programs, 19 Sakhalin-1 trained technicians have been promoted to supervisory positions, and another four technicians took on technical advisory roles. In 2013, another 30 trainees are expected to complete the training and receive their first assignments with ENL. In May 2012, ENL completed a gravity-based structure for the Arkutun-Dagi platform — the largest in Russia. More than 4,000 Russian nationals worked on the design and construction of the structure. Developing Local Suppliers Developing local suppliers is also a key component of our business model. As a direct result of the company’s efforts to enhance Russian capacity within the Sakhalin-1 project, the value of contracts awarded to Russian companies during implementation has totaled about $7.9 billion, representing nearly two-thirds of the total contracts awarded to date. $7.9 billion in contracts to Russian companies This ongoing support has allowed many local suppliers to expand their businesses. For example, the SFERA Limited Liability Construction Firm has been in the Sakhalin construction industry since 1988. SFERA started as a building cooperative with only 30 employees. With mentorship and continued business from ENL, SFERA has grown to more than 1,500 employees and is now one of the largest and most successful construction companies in Sakhalin. ENL encourages collaboration between international service providers and local companies to ensure local suppliers can meet the key performance criteria of ExxonMobil projects and execute safe and efficient operations. Training Our technical training programs for suppliers and contractors continue to reach more Sakhalin residents.