Case study: ExxonMobil’s response to Hurricane HarveyOn August 25, 2017, Hurricane Harvey made landfall in Texas as a Category 4 storm, bringing destructive winds and flooding to the Gulf Coast. The storm caused an estimated $125 billion in damages, and rebuilding efforts continue. ExxonMobil acted swiftly to ensure the safety of our employees and support affected communities.Supporting our communities and our peopleWe started our response to Hurricane Harvey before it even arrived — by making a financial contribution to community disaster relief efforts and by beginning to safely shut down our operations and make plans to bring in fuel from unaffected locations to aid in response and recovery.At our Baytown and Beaumont refineries, we worked to minimize environmental impacts from our operations that were caused by the storm and resulting power loss, and reported impacts to appropriate authorities. We helped our employees — many of whom spent day and night on the job to help safely shut down and then quickly restart our operations — clean up and repair their own homes, when they were flooded by the storm.In the days and weeks following the storm, ExxonMobil contributed more than $7 million to assist with recovery efforts, and provided supplies and volunteers to assist with community recovery. For example, our employees helped the city of Beaumont restore its municipal water system, when Harvey left more than 100,000 people without running water. And we transported more than 60,000 pounds of cargo via helicopter to stranded personnel and community members throughout the area.As rebuilding along the Gulf Coast continues, we are thankful for the incredible dedication of our employees and the resilience of our neighbors and the communities we serve.
Emergency response operationsThe ability to respond promptly during a disaster — regardless of where it strikes — is critical. ExxonMobil conducts extensive training and drills to prepare for such situations. We design our facilities to withstand a variety of extreme conditions. Regardless of the size, severity or cause of an event, each ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to trained responders and resources. We practice emergency response strategies and routinely test our emergency response teams in accordance with regulatory requirements and our own Operations Integrity Management System. Above: Relief supplies for Hurricane Harvey victims being loaded into a helicopter by ExxonMobil employees in Texas. 