Creating sustainable solutionsOur approachAround the world, ExxonMobil aims to be a preferred business partner, neighbor, employer and supplier.ExxonMobil is committed to creating sustainable solutions that improve quality of life and meet society’s evolving needs in ways that help protect people, the environment and the communities where we operate.Our focus areasProgressing product safety   Expanding the plastics life cycle   Excerpt: Delivering economic benefits   Oil bottles being filled in a factory.Progressing product safetyExxonMobil aims to provide the energy and products the world needs in a way that protects human health and the environment. Our scientists and product stewardship professionals collaborate with industry and academic researchers, regulatory bodies and policy makers to help ensure that the best available science informs industry product safety policy. We apply rigorous processes and standards, including updating and translating annually approximately 86,000 safety data sheets listing risks and proper use of products. In 2021, we continued our strong performance in our Fuels, Lubricants and Chemicals businesses with zero high-consequence product stewardship-related incidents, a key internal metric.ExxonMobil works to mitigate potential impacts of our products by factoring relevant health, environmental exposure and use data into our development process and communications with employees and customers. We strive to identify and manage risks associated with our products, and to avoid manufacture or sale of products when it is not possible to provide an appropriate level of safety through proper design, procedures and practices.Our focused objective is to identify and manage risk associated with our products and to provide the appropriate level of safety for people and the environment. Please see our Product Safety Policy to more fully understand our approach to health, safety and environmental management of our products.More information on product safety, including product standards, safe handling and strategic relationships can be found on our website.Web link.Our approach to progressing product safetyPDF link.Product Safety Policy (page 15)A woman wears safety goggles while working in a lab. Expanding the plastics life cycle Plastics play a vital role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and enabling modern life. They also play an important role in our portfolio. That is why we are focused on providing the products the world needs while working to develop and deploy solutions to reduce plastic waste. To this end, we have started up our first, large-scale advanced recycling facility and are progressing activities throughout the world with the expectation to have about 1 billion pounds of annual advanced recycling capacity by year-end 2026. Plastics are increasingly one of society’s materials of choice because of their superior performance, affordability and life-cycle benefits compared to alternatives. Step into any hospital, kitchen, daycare center, science lab, airplane or automobile, and you will find abundant examples of critical plastic products. The plastics found in cell phones, computers, vehicles, packaging, surgical devices, personal protective equipment, facemasks and many other applications provide countless benefits as well.From our operations, our goal is to continue experiencing zero pellet loss to the environment. Although laws and regulations related to the reporting of plastic pellet loss to the environment vary by jurisdiction, ExxonMobil adopted a global standard across our resin-handling facilities. Because of these efforts, ExxonMobil had no reportable plastic pellet losses from our resin-handling facilities[9] in 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021.More information on plastics life-cycle, including Advanced Recycling and strategic collaborations, can be found on our website.Web link.Our approach to expanding the plastics life cycleTwo hands hold out a phone to take a picture.Excerpt: Delivering economic benefitsEnergy and human development are tightly linked, with energy demand up 15% to support rising human development in the developing world. Access to affordable and reliable energy has enabled billions of people to live longer, healthier lives. Yet many more can’t count on having clean cooking fuel or electricity, especially in developing countries which represent more than 80% of the world’s people. As they gain access to energy and improve their living standards, they will create the largest expansion of the global middle class in history. That means more demand for energy to power homes, transportation and consumer goods. Global fundamentalsEnergy is essential for human progress. Economic expansion and improving access to energy enable longer, more productive lives for the growing global population. A deep understanding of long-term energy fundamentals underpins ExxonMobil’s business planning.These fundamentals include energy supply and demand trends; the scale and variety of energy needs worldwide; capability, practicality and affordability of energy alternatives including lower-emission solutions; greenhouse gas emission-reduction technologies; and supportive government policies. The ExxonMobil Outlook for Energy (“Outlook”) considers these fundamentals to form the basis for long-term business planning, investment decisions, and research programs. The Outlook reflects our view of global energy demand and supply through 2050. It is based on current and expected trends in technology, government policies, consumer preferences, geopolitics and economic development.More information can be found in ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy.Web link.Outlook for EnergyBird's eye view of a city scape with many highways leading in and out of the city in the foreground.A woman and two children planting a tree in a park.